Now we're alive.
Three two,
one boom.
Hello Annie.
Hello.
Very nice to meet you.
I'm excited to talk to you.
I'm super excited to talk to you about several subjects,
but this one,
thank you very much for this.
A first edition copy of your area,
51 and uncensored history of America's top secret military base book.
I'm super excited about this.
I heard through the grapevine you are a fan.
I'm a freak when it comes to this stuff.
Do you,
what do you think is going on up there?
I mean,
same thing that's going on all over the place when it comes to military secrets,
which is stuff that you want to know about.
Very few people know about an every now and then a journalist gets a hint.
Hm?
Yeah.
Do you think there's any alien stuff up there?
I write in the book all about that.
Yeah.
We'll tell him last 12 pages.
You want me to [inaudible] pages?
What do you think?
So area 51 was this secret test base where the CIA was running a spy plane
programs.
Right.
So interestingly,
my new book is about ground branch guys.
On the ground that's about Arab ranch,
what we were doing in the air.
And it was this idea that we should spy on the enemy.
Okay.
And,
but if you go back in time,
why area 51 really started,
you learn that it was a base hidden inside of a base nuclear weapons and it was
all about beating stolen at his black propaganda campaign.
Sat right in the book to hoax Americans in a war of the worlds type scenario
whereby little men who looked like aliens would get out of an aircraft and the
government would go crazy about it.
And then Stalin would say,
look,
we have,
not only do we have technology but better than you,
but we have a better propaganda department than you route that.
Joe,
you got to read the whole book.
I mean,
this is like a,
this is a tough opening.
You got me on the spot,
but it's a good spot.
All right.
Good spine.
So stolen.
Just hired short people or where do you do all right.
I'm gonna make you save that.
I'm gonna make you earn.
Yeah,
I mean,
you want me to talk about that right now?
Right off the bat I'm sweating.
We're going to get to surprise,
kill vanish as well,
but I want to,
I just,
yeah.
Why does it make you sweat?
Oh my God,
it's such an incendiary topic.
I mean,
people,
people want to believe they're aliens.
Right?
Right.
Okay.
I mean,
I've spent five books dealing with the pathology of area 51 which is phenomenal
in its own way because it speaks so much to power,
to morality,
to information,
to,
you know,
people's desire to know what's going on and,
and the government's desire to keep things hidden.
So this topic is always coming up because a lot of people want to believe that
there were aliens in that craft.
And my source,
who I write about in the book,
uh,
told me otherwise that they were genetically,
you know,
then when we stop you right there,
because when you say that craft,
what you mean is the supposed Ufo records or crashed in Roswell,
New Mexico in 1947 that's what you mean,
right?
Yes.
But that was never supposedly taken to area 51 I was supposed to be taken to
Wright Patterson air force base.
The legend has it that Truman flew there to meet them and
right.
That's one legend.
Yeah.
So in my book I interview a man who worked for the Atomic Energy Commission who
tells a different story,
tells the story of receiving that craft at area 51 in 1951 which is why the base
is called area 51 oh and that inside the craft where humans who had been altered
surgically altered to look like aliens in a plan for Stalin to sort of twist
Truman's arm.
Because at that time
we had the atomic bomb on Roswell happened,
we had the atomic bomb and the Soviets did not.
Can I stop you there?
Yeah.
When you say humans that were surgically altered to look like aliens,
do you mean,
so this is 1951 so you're talking about four years after this supposedly
crash.
Yes.
So what,
what was the last they kept the bodies on bodies.
In what?
Formaldehyde and also because the idea was and remember or I can't say remember
cause you haven't read the book yet.
Right.
And I wrote this book eight years ago.
Um,
but it did really impact a lot of my,
a lot of my thinking and working on,
on,
you know,
government secrecy projects because it makes you really consider what a hopes
means and what it means to a population of people and how the government begins
to work with disinformation versus cover stories and all of that.
But going back to answer your question,
that is what I was told by the source that,
but how reliable,
what was the source?
This is a very incendiary idea to rely upon one individuals
collection of it,
which is why the book went through the roof in terms of people being upset about
it.
I mean,
where they,
oh my God,
I interviewed 79 CIA guys,
air force guys,
spy pilots,
engineers.
I mean,
who's mad at you?
They,
conspiracy theorists were mad at me because they said this woman has bananas.
They were aliens.
Well,
even if they weren't aliens.
That's
right.
There's also,
there's accounts that it was some sort of a test vehicle and that there were
actually just dummies inside their crash test dummies that they used.
There's been a bunch of different versions of it,
but the most compelling version of the area,
51 alien myth to me is Bob Lasar.
Did you get into that?
Yeah,
he plays a
huge role in area 51 I mean,
yeah,
before Bob Lasar went public,
no one even knew about area 51 people have all new people.
It was,
it was common folk lore,
but there was no definitive proof that there was something going on over there
other than some weird VHS footage of things flying around in the desert that
seemed to be behaving in a way that modern Aircrafts are not totally capable of,
at least modern piloted Aircrafts are not totally capable of.
Which brings me to another book I wrote called the Pentagon sprain,
which you know,
sort of off this idea.
I was like,
wait a minute,
what kind of technology is the government capable of?
And we have it hold department for that reason called Darpa,
which looks at weapon systems 25 years out.
So the idea that you and I don't know what the military is capable of in the air
under water,
wherever it may be,
is because we're not thinking 25 years out and they are and they're developing
weapons systems,
the great weapons systems of the future.
That's what they call them,
right?
Look how they develop the stealth bomber Lincoln that was all out in area 51 and
groom lake.
And um,
what do you think of Bible is our store,
cause Bob,
our story,
what's it really,
there's some fascinating aspects to it.
One of the most fascinating and some of the things that he's said that people
said was horseshit,
it's told has been proven to be true.
Like one of the things the,
the biometric reader that measured the length of the bones in your hand and that
they are unique as unique as a fingerprint and people are like,
what are you talking about?
And then they actually found out that this was something they really did have
and they have photos of this thing.
Now this is something that he talked about and they claimed it was science
fiction.
I mean,
it's fascinating when someone touches upon a subject that the government does
not want known about for any reason.
And there is a campaign to discredit that person.
And there's no doubt that that happened to him.
I mean,
it was remarkable.
And I write about him in the book because if you follow the logic that my source
told me that these were,
you know,
modified human beings as part of a hoax.
And the reason that I trust the sources,
because Joe,
he told me that he also worked on the program,
so he had like a burden to unload.
Right.
And so if you follow that logic through,
then the Bible is our story is that Bob,
when Bob was our set,
I saw an alien.
It looked like this.
It was small.
It had big eyes.
It's,
yes,
those were the [inaudible] genetically.
I mean those were the surgically modified humans that the government was doing
experiments.
I think Bob blazars exact quote was he walked by a window and he looked in and
he saw two agents that were,
it looked,
they were looking down at something that was very small and look to humanoid,
but he didn't know if it was a dummy or anything and he wasn't even supposed to
be looking in there and it was a brief like one second look for that.
He is bounced around in his head back and forth.
Has it ever
occurred you that maybe the guy who gave that information did work there but is
also feeding you horseshit?
Well,
the source was a major player in the Manhattan project.
He went on and worked in the Atomic Energy Commission.
I mean there's a wing of a museum named after him.
Um,
his accolades,
his awards were so extraordinary.
It would basis then you have never said his name,
although you know,
I will say this when you're giving away,
giving away a lot of the stuff that recently died and he did give me permission
to tell his full story after he died.
And I'm circling around circling around that.
But he was absolutely,
uh,
you know,
with a Q Q clearance,
that's what you have when you have access to nuclear secrets.
So if someone has a Q clearance for decades and they're full of garbage,
you really have to ask my God,
should this guy have a Q clearance?
I mean that's reverse engineering his credibility.
But I think you should read the whole book because you know,
it's shocking what he says,
but it does make sense.
If you can get through 400 pages of,
you know,
the CIA's idea about information disinformation,
why we need to cover things up,
why that's why I'm asking you if you think he might've been lying to you.
I don't believe it was line whatsoever.
No,
I don't believe,
I don't believe you think that the stall on that,
the Russian government definitely did surgically alter people to make them look
like a new Orleans.
I believe with the images of these,
I believe what he told me.
Did you see photos?
No,
I did not see if it is,
but here's the rub.
Ready.
When I was writing another book called phenomena,
which dealt with the CIA and the Pentagon's use of psychics.
Okay.
Um,
over decades.
I mean this goes back,
everything I write about pretty much goes back to post World War when we remote
viewing stuff.
Yes,
yes.
And it's all about government.
US government takes pole position after World War II and we now need to always
be ahead of the curve.
We must lead.
We can never get beaten by the Russians.
Now it's China.
Okay.
So the psychic program had a lot of people who really believe in aliens or you
know,
other Intel intelligence from other worlds.
And when I was writing the phenomenal book,
I learned a whole bunch of new information about how upset they were with my
story because they believe,
and they all knew the source by the way.
They knew the source and they believed that he was fed misinformation.
So these are two sides of the coin,
which are super interesting.
I think if you can look at them with your own biased turned off and not have a
desired outcome.
I want to believe this.
I don't want to believe this,
you know,
um,
speaking of,
I want to believe,
you know,
I was working on a project with Chris Carter
who is the x files creator.
And the one person I took the source,
um,
that I wanted to meet the source was Chris Carter and I,
we went out there together and sat with him and met him.
And it was well because the source had never even heard of the x files.
And it was like,
oh,
I know they talked about baseball,
you know?
Um,
see,
I don't have a desired outcome.
I mean,
I would love it if aliens were real okay.
But when someone starts talking about disinformation and propaganda campaigns,
but they want you to believe them.
Right?
But don't listen,
I'm here telling you the truth.
I'm not saying I'm telling you the truth at all.
That's why I was not yet.
Let's wait for an hour.
Three because it's too explosive.
People have such a horse in the race already.
They with aliens you think?
Well,
I mean maybe you are neutral.
I don't know.
I know I'm neutral.
I will listen.
I absolutely want aliens to be real hundred percent and I'm not neutral,
am neutral in my perceptions.
And when I look at things I go,
hmm,
I dunno about that.
Me To want to see a picture.
Like what are these?
What are these guys looked like?
I mean,
what did they do to them?
Did he describe what kind of surgical alterations stayed with a source?
I mean,
after the book published,
I would go and visit him.
We'd sit in a Chinese restaurant and eat and talk and I would try to get a
droplet of information out of him.
Oh my God.
He avoided.
I mean,
look,
here's another thing.
When the book came out,
his wife of 65 years knew it was him.
Okay.
And I went out to Las Vegas and sat there in a room with the source and his wife
and she said,
tell me this isn't true.
Tell me you made this all up to her husband.
And he said,
it's the truth.
I mean,
that's a triangular version of getting at the truth.
But again,
to reiterate,
I believe he believes what he told me was the truth.
That was the truth.
He was told.
I think there's certain agents that think it's fun to fuck with reporters and
journalists and make things up.
I really do.
I think especially when they're talking about secret information that they were
sworn to protect and then all of a sudden they want to talk to someone that they
don't even know on the sneak tip.
Let's meet at a diner.
I'm going to tell you everything how we met.
Well,
I mean,
yeah,
I mean however you met.
Yeah.
We met because I was interviewing nuclear weapons engineers who are setting off
nuclear bombs in area 51 mushroom,
I mean in the Nevada test site area 12 area 23 and they all said to me,
you've got to talk to the top engineer of all this weaponry.
And they gave me his name and we talked for days and hours about nuclear
weapons.
And then in one conversation he began to cry and told me this story that I was
like,
what was crying?
He was crying because he participated in our version of the human experiments
because what the Russians do,
we do,
look,
I've written five books about them,
altered people to make them look like an alien.
According to him.
We had a small program in 1951 where we wanted to see how the Russians did what
they did,
how they made human beings look like this is where they do take prisoners or
something.
Who Do they alter?
He said they were handicapped children.
Oh Jesus.
And he told me that he participated in this.
So again,
I mean,
unless you have someone that lost their mind at age 90 and was willing to tell
their wife of 65 years,
I lost my mind.
So he's saying that he participated in something that altered handicapped
children.
When you say handicapped,
you know like down syndrome or something like that and they made them look like
aliens and then killed them.
Like what did,
how did they,
what did they do with this?
This is where we get into drops of information coming in.
But what I can say is he had a grandchild that was born that way and,
and the grandchild did not live long.
The grandchild died and it made him feel so guilty about what he had done that
he felt compelled to con to confess,
if you will.
And I remember saying to him,
why are you telling me this?
Why don't you tell a priest?
And he said,
a priest would judge me and I can tell you won't.
That's why wouldn't you judge them or judge them?
Well I guess that's why I'm a born journalist joke cause I really try not to
judge people.
I mean,
my new book surprised kill vanish.
It's about assassins.
It's about people who work for the CIA,
who do what needs to be done on the ground,
uh,
in the name of national security.
I don't judge them.
This is why you know,
what's really at issue here is morality,
right?
Yeah.
I mean,
can I tell you how I got the idea for this book?
Sure.
But let me,
before we go any further.
So you want to talk about the area.
Was he saying that there have never been any encounters with the alien
spacecraft?
He was totally neutral about aliens.
He had nothing to do with aliens.
He could have cared less.
He didn't watch the axe files.
What was his take on Bob Lozar?
His take on Bob was our,
was that he probably saw something that the government had an extension of the
program.
I mean,
he didn't know that was speculative.
We didn't talk about that.
I mean,
you know,
other than inference,
he was very limited in his,
in the information that he would get out.
But I mean,
I used 79 sources in that book.
That all went on the record in name and he was the one anonymous source because,
but like I said,
you know,
he told me after he died that I could tell the whole story.
I think I might,
I might come back into the book.
If you give me a break and back off of this subject,
I might come back and tell you,
and your audience is your book.
I want to promote your book.
I know you want to promote your new book,
but I want to promote this book as well.
I mean,
I'm teasing you,
but it's,
it's like it's an astonishing story and I think the best line of all is that
people that read about that in the very end of what we did,
they go,
I wish they were aliens.
You know?
So Stalin created some sort of a craft that mimic,
you're going to read it.
That's what you're going to do the rest of the afternoon.
Nope.
I'm going to come back on your chest and we're talking.
I think we should probably get into this a little.
Okay.
Come on with the question.
I'm used to asking the questions as a journalist.
Yeah.
No,
Stalin and the,
the Russians created something that mimicked,
um,
a Ufo,
something that looked like it would be from another planet.
Is that what they did?
Mother ship in those days?
Drones where there was a mothership and adrenaline was attached to it and it was
jettisoned off.
Okay.
So in those days,
well,
in 1947,
48,
well,
they didn't,
I mean that was drone technology then,
right?
So there's a mother,
a mother craft,
like our aircraft,
and then the drone is like a small aircraft under it and it gets jettisoned off.
And that was what the craft was.
It was jettisons off.
So that,
so stolen actually according to the source,
invaded our airspace,
which was the deep embarrassment to Truman.
So we invaded our airspace and then let this drone crash land on the ground with
these things that turned out to be human.
They look like aliens,
but they turn out to be humans that were manipulated surgically to look like
Yale as a way to and remember,
I mean,
not remember,
but where,
where this was was,
you know,
very close to a nuclear weapon space to our white sands military base.
I mean,
this is like not a place you want the Russians to be able to get there.
Right.
You know,
I mean,
what was interesting is that area 51 we then went on and mimicked all of those.
One of our early drones was a mimicry of that.
It was the dean,
there was a m 21 which was the mothership and a d 21 which was the daughtership.
So how was it wirelessly or we do,
no,
no.
Then it was like the,
there was a pilot and the mothership and they kind of let it go and it flew off.
I mean,
there's incredible stories of what the CIA was able to do out there at area 51
with their air branch,
you know,
um,
the technology,
they're always ahead of technology.
That's what's remarkable.
Well what Bob was our did film that was really shocking was the film,
the filming of these drones flying around and performing these really,
you've seen those videos of sure.
Right in the 80s it gets really crazy with what they're able to do and went
there.
But I mean why I like looking at history is cause you can see the progression,
you know,
you see how science evolves,
bit by bit.
And then
there's these great breakthroughs because what the government is always looking
for is called a revolution in military affairs.
Right.
And that's certainly what drone technology did.
Um,
later on as drones became developed after the Vietnam War in the 1980s when Bob
was our,
was filming all this stuff,
you think this was similar to the technology that we see publicly described
today in terms of like what drones are capable of?
Sure.
I mean that's,
that's something like that.
But then they're all,
you know,
when,
when the f one 17 was revealed during the first Gulf War,
that aircraft was being developed for 20,
25 years out at area 51 actually at area 52 was where they had it set up,
um,
to develop that stuff.
Technology,
think about,
and what was amazing,
talk about keeping secrets.
Um,
they had something like 10,000 people working on that.
No one knew about it.
That story was never broken by the press,
not by anyone.
It just suddenly appeared in the Gulf War and took out Saddam Hussein's,
you know,
facilities.
That's a revolution in military affairs.
What becomes interesting is then it becomes obsolete because now everybody knows
about it and everybody's going to mimic that.
And now you have to have a new weapon system.
And that's the military industrial complex.
So was this drone aircraft that was released from the mothership,
was this capable of autonomous flight or was it just they just threw it out
there and let it crash?
Uh,
the ladder.
Right.
And remember that information.
I am very limited too.
That's why it's tough pages.
It's like the source gave me these little bits of information,
which I felt I felt was important to include because it speaks to the big issue.
Why is area 51 classified?
I mean now it's not President Obama was the first president to actually say area
51 publicly.
Some people say because of my book,
right?
Meaning it was out,
the secret was out.
But before that I went through 10,000 pages of documents from the national
archives.
And every place you see the word area 51 was actually redacted.
Right.
Why would you keep that so secret?
I mean,
all the guys that I was interviewing say they could call it,
you know,
groom lake,
they could call it the test facility.
They could call it paradise ranch,
but they couldn't say area 51 y.
And the source said,
well,
because we did this horrible program out there and the government doesn't want
anyone to know about that ever.
I mean there stories of like somebody asking Bill Clinton,
you know about area 51 him going away.
I mean human experiments,
who wants to be part of that?
It's horrible.
But the human experiments were,
were they limited to this mimicry of the Russian experiments where they were
trying to get people to look like aliens or where there's something else going
on?
Oh my goodness.
I mean you read now the declassified documents tell us how many different human
experiments were going on around nuclear weapons.
Okay.
Horrible experiments where they were subjecting people to radiation because they
wanted to know,
they felt,
well,
it's more important to know what happens to people than to not know.
And so they would take groups of people that say had cancer or something and
test them.
So there's no doubt that the government has experimented on humans.
It's just,
is that something that is wise to make public?
And you know,
there's two sides of the coin on that.
I mean you,
you,
when you reveal these kinds of things,
when you write about them,
I mean,
people get really upset and you know,
vilify the government partially with good reason.
And partially it's like bad for national security.
So I think that's the justification on the part of the fence department to keep
things secret.
That makes sense.
Wow.
That's a,
that's an interesting take that I never thought of before,
but if I was stolen and I was trying to air quotes,
fuck with the Americans,
that's maybe way I would do it.
Hey man,
you gotta problems.
Aliens are coming.
And there was,
if people,
it's hard for people that live in 2019 especially if you're young,
to really imagine a world,
not only without the internet,
but with two television channels.
Right.
And Radio,
which was where people got all their information from.
I mean,
was there two channels?
How many channels where the,
in 1947 maybe three,
maybe three.
I mean it was radio in World War Two,
right?
Most video mostly.
Yeah.
Yeah,
mostly radio and newspapers and that's where people were getting their
information.
And there was a mass hysteria where people were absolutely terrified that we
were going to be invaded,
which is why when Orson wells war of worlds,
which when they released it,
when they did it on the air,
they were very clear that this is going to be a reading of Orson Wells War of
worlds book or that a Hg wells,
excuse me,
war of war.
Right.
Was Hg wells book and Orson Welles Reddit.
Yes.
And when they were talking about this on the radio,
a lot of people miss that part.
Right.
And so as the radio went on,
as the broadcast went on and people were tuning in later in the day,
it erupted in mass hysteria.
People were freaking out.
Hundreds of thousands of people really did think that it was.
And it was also something that was recreated in other countries.
I don't know if you know that they did that in other countries and different
languages when they saw how cute it worked in America.
And
so you see,
you can see the logic.
I mean,
at first it sounds absurd and ridiculous and that's why I was sweating because
it's like,
I know,
right?
Right.
But when you think it through,
and I challenge you to read the whole book because you start piecing together
these various ideas and disinformation becomes less vague and more specific and
you go,
oh,
that's how it works.
And you begin to see how people's perception and how they're easily manipulated
factors into national security.
Just like you just described,
stolen,
knew about that he was a master.
He was the master of propaganda.
He invented it.
I mean,
he didn't invent it,
but he invented it in a,
you know,
on the political stage to be used to mess with another country's perception of
things.
Hmm.
Think of what he did with brainwashing.
Right.
Okay.
So like in the fifties and this is journalists,
you know,
said.
So there was a journalist who is putting out stories about brainwashing and
there was this idea,
which is well taken that totalitarian governments brainwash people.
And this became a big code word.
It was introduced into the American lexicon in 1950 well then we're in the
Korean War.
Our pilots start getting shot down there,
put on TV by the Communists saying terrible things about America that American
pilots,
and suddenly it was like they've been brainwashed.
It was very convenient to have that story.
So these things work part and parcel and you've got all kinds of smart people
behind the scenes knowing this,
looking at it,
examining it,
and using it to their advantage to stay aware in the pole position.
That's the goal of the u s government.
So the propaganda that we did that sort of copied Stallings and we were kind of
playing catch up in that sense.
I mean,
we're playing catch up,
then we're ahead or behind it.
It's always a,
it's a game.
It's,
I mean,
you're a competitor.
You know this,
if that's okay.
Crazy thing to do to make a fake spaceship and just let it slam into the ground
with a bunch of people that you cut up to look like aliens.
Did he say specifically what kind of modifications they made to people that made
them look like aliens?
I got dreads,
drill,
read it in those 12 come mom with this 12 pages.
I'm telling you that because you're asking me these questions as if I spent,
I mean look,
I did spend literally hundreds of hours with a source and we sat there and
talked about everything and I would try to squeeze out just like you're trying
to squeeze out of me and that's what I'm saying.
Read it because I literally tell you everything that there is.
I think what's most interesting about the source and why I might come back and
talk to you about it and tell you who he is on your show is because,
because of his backstory,
right?
Why he did what he did,
how he wound up in the Manhattan project.
Sounds like he was probably Jewish from Germany.
No,
no,
no.
I'm trying.
Okay.
Gotcha.
Morality.
Talk to me how we're talking about morality.
We're talking about why we can't talk about certain things.
While we're,
what you were saying before about being a competitor,
the United States is competitive.
Yeah.
Obviously.
And when you're playing the ultimate game,
which is war,
yes.
You have to be very careful about what you reveal and what you don't reveal.
And this is where the conversation about surprise kill vantage comes in because
the CIA using these covert operations to assassinate people and whether or not
that
should be allowed or not allowed,
whether it's good or bad.
Yes.
Whether it's necessary,
whether it's like,
if you want people to be safe over here,
there's certain people you got to take out and sometimes you just can't follow
the rules.
And why?
Why are we not supposed to know about them?
Should we know about that?
The way the story started for me,
I'm at my house in 2009 a source is,
you know,
calls me up.
He says,
I'm on my way back from the Middle East,
going to pop by the house and say hi.
Um,
he brings me a challenge coin that says Kabul,
Afghanistan State Department.
I'm thinking,
okay,
he is not a diplomat.
I mean,
he's weapons trained.
Um,
at the time my boys were young,
there were lots of Gi joes in the garden and they had little weapons,
right?
And the source is showing them about the weapons and they're like so into it
because they know he's military trained.
And then he says,
if it's okay with your mom and dad,
I'll show you some weapons.
The boys are like,
please.
So he sets up the sniper rifle in the living room and I live up in the hills and
you can look across the canyon through this scope.
He sat up and I can see the veins on a leaf across the canyon.
And I thought,
okay,
so now I know what he was doing in Kabul,
Afghanistan,
he's taking out al Qaeda with this.
There's another case on the ground that he never opens.
And when the boys go off,
I say to him,
what's in there?
And he said,
he opens it up and inside there's a knife and it's saturated.
And I said,
what's that for?
Immediately realizing,
you know,
mine,
I have a ta.
And he says to me,
sometimes the job requires quiet.
So why that became interesting to me was because of my own thoughts and
perceptions about what he had told me.
In other words,
I could,
I could deal with him with a sniper rifle.
I couldn't be like,
okay,
that's what he does.
But the knife gave me pause.
I was like,
see slitting someone's throat,
is it in the ribs?
And I thought,
why is it that I am willing to accept sort of the clinical nature of a,
of a sniper rifle,
but I can't,
I'm uncomfortable with that close up hand to hand killing.
And that led me to surprise kill vanish because that was the motto of the
Precursor Agency of the CIA.
It was called the Oss,
the office of strategic services.
Their motto was surprised,
kill vanish because they would jump out of aircraft land,
work with their French partners and kill Nazis with uh,
you know,
a knife to the throat.
And I thought,
okay,
that's considered okay because they were Nazis,
right?
But we can't,
we're not supposed to do that anymore in this world.
We live in.
Why?
And I spent the whole,
this whole book researching and reporting is about that sort of conundrum,
if you will,
that moral puzzle,
you know,
why do we,
yeah.
And who are they willing to do that too?
Where do they draw the line?
Like,
I'm sure you're aware of the story of Jamal could Shogi the journalist who was
assassinated by someone or some group of people on that day,
he entered into the Turkish embassy and,
um,
they,
they whacked him in,
chopped him up and carried him out in boxes.
And it's,
uh,
an international
is,
well,
it's a huge incident,
right?
Yes.
This supposedly was ordered by,
who was it supposedly to order by the head of Saudi Arabia?
Yeah.
Mbs Mohammad bin.
Salmaan.
I mean,
that's the idea is that they're head of state wanted him killed because he was a
threat because he was a reporter.
Because you're writing some things.
Yeah.
And that they,
this is how they did it.
Yeah.
I mean,
and there's,
that's a great question because what you're saying is like,
okay,
so,
but we all think of that as reprehensible.
Right,
right,
right.
Why you know,
cause
because he's a journalist and he was on our side,
he's delivering information to people.
But the government of Saudi Arabia disagreed there like that information as our
information.
He's a threat by releasing it.
Yes.
He's a threat to our livelihood.
Yeah.
And who decides who's a threat?
I'm in a lot of this book is about who's on the kill list,
right?
I mean there is an actual killer if there always has been and the euphemisms
involved.
I mean I write history as I said,
so Eisenhower called his assassination program.
Health alteration.
I mean literally in the date of classified documents,
hilarious.
Health alterations,
alteration,
a health alteration committee.
Whoa.
Kennedy had an executive action committee.
Right.
That's all it's cleaner.
Right?
Guess what Reagan's was called?
Uh,
super Wonderboy power up.
I don't know what clothes.
Preemptive neutralization.
Wow.
Why do they keep switching the names for it?
They're burying the information.
Right.
And they keep switching around the,
they switch around who has authority to,
you know,
say yes,
let's go ahead and put this guy on the kill list.
I mean,
that was fascinating.
I interviewed a guy named John Rizzo,
who is a decades long CIA attorney.
I was stunned that he was willing to talk to me.
Um,
and he explained to me how a presidential finding also called a memorandum of
notification works that gives the president the authority to put an individual
on the kill list.
That job is then given to the CIA's paramilitary army on operator,
or they're assassins because the CIA works under a code called title 50 of,
so it makes it legal.
Whereas the Defense Department works under what's called title 10.
So in other words,
and they can't,
their rules of engagement are totally different.
So the misnomer is like,
oh,
the seals killed bin Laden while they were seals trained.
But that was ACI mission.
Mm.
Because Pakistan is a sovereign nation and the military can't kill people in
countries we're not at war with.
So those guys all became essentially CIA operators for the night.
Right.
And if you look at photographs as I have seen,
you'll notice that they have no markings on their outfits so that if the job
went south it'd be like,
I don't know who these guys are.
And if you look back at Vietnam photos of the McAfee SOG teams,
which I also write about in surprise,
kill,
vanish cause that's the precursor of that.
You see no markings,
right?
That's that way you can go into,
you can go behind enemy lines,
you can go into Laos.
You know in the Vietnam War you can go now you can go into Pakistan.
What I learned reporting this book is we're in 134 countries doing title 50
operations.
Think about that.
Government wants that to be kept secret.
So in all those countries they're doing things that don't fall under the normal
leveler of the law.
Not Yes,
not under the rules of engagement of the military,
but the CIA works at the president's behest that that was one thing that really
blew my mind to report,
to research,
to understand.
I talked to 42 guys who have direct access to this who are in this world,
you know,
from the knuckle draggers on the ground as they call themselves to the lawyer at
CIA senior intelligence staff.
That's the equivalent of a general at the CIA.
Those guys explaining to me,
Annie,
this is how it works,
you know,
and again to your question,
well why?
Why does someone get to know that and why does the government want,
why are they allow that information out as super interesting.
And I believe that has to do with a certain climate we're in right now about
military might,
right?
In other words,
what the CIA does is called Tershia optio.
It's the third option you've got the first option is diplomacy.
Second option is war.
So if diplomacy is not working and wars on wise,
you go to the third option,
which is the CIA's paramilitary and they're in a hundred and how many countries?
134 or if you wonder why the military budgets so big,
that's what it is.
Folks going to feed those folks will work.
I mean,
and you as a competitor would be fascinated by the kind of training they do and
what they do.
I mean,
so many of these infiltration techniques are mind boggling.
You know,
they've got halo jumping,
which you know about,
right where they see high altitude,
low opening,
so they jump that,
you know,
free fall down terminal velocity,
pull the ripcord really low so they're not detected by radar.
And then they meet up with a team on the ground and go do what they do.
And they also have hey ho,
which is high altitude,
high opening.
And that way you can fly over airspace where we're allowed and float into let's
say a country like around
and land,
gather your team and do what you have to do.
[inaudible] but like so much of what I report,
I get information like that and then I ask a million questions like you've
asking me and it's like,
can't talk about that.
That's classified.
Hmm.
You don't,
you,
you're a journalist.
So you're trying not to judge,
but
is it your belief that this is a good thing for America?
Meaning math,
that resident having a third option?
Well,
I mean I write in the book that that's in the prologue.
After I tell that story about the source with a knife,
I say I wanted to know.
Yeah,
and that exact question,
like is this a good thing?
And my answer at the end after it's complex,
not to be vague,
but it is really complex,
is also that,
well,
if you're gonna take that pole position,
you must accept rivalry.
Right.
And also after talk,
do I think it's a good thing after talking to a lot of 20 year old soldiers who
come back from the war theater missing a limb or with intense PTSD and who
essentially serve as cannon fodder,
I would say my opinion,
right?
For the Pentagon,
that's the second option.
Or
okay.
The 42 guys that I interviewed,
you know,
they're like send me,
they are professional.
They are tier one operators.
They're green berets,
their seals,
their delta.
They retire.
They joined the CIA.
Yeah.
So they're like professionals at what they do and they're saying,
I want someone has to do this job.
We've been doing this since the end of World War II.
I want to do it.
So do I think it's better?
I mean,
I think that that concept speaks to
choice,
right?
Because I'm not so sure that the 20 year olds know what they're in for and the
40 year olds know what they're in for and are willing to do it.
So the d will also the difference between a specialized trained individual with
a very specific task versus someone who is sort of following orders and at the
front of the line.
Yeah.
Ryan,
I mean,
and also has a,
you know,
a lot of times I talk to these young kids who go to war and they,
me,
one of the fascinating detail is that they talk about movies that they see and
whether it's saving private Ryan or Black Hawk down even right,
where the outcome is not necessarily great,
but they talk about the Romanticization of war and of Camaraderie and
brotherhood that comes from that.
And then they have their experience and some of that does give them that sense,
but not always.
Whereas the operators are much more about,
um,
you know,
getting the job done.
That's what I was fascinated by.
I mean,
these guys are really clear there.
They're competitors.
They're like top tier competitors.
They have a job,
they do it,
they get it done and they asked for the next job.
So is the oversight when it comes to choosing whether or not this operation
takes place or not,
is it,
do they have moral guidelines?
Do they have ethical or moral guidelines where they say like,
this is the president is requesting that this person did get taken out.
The chiefs of Staff,
whoever it is.
Is that,
I mean,
do they have to make a,
an,
an ethical distinction?
You mean,
are they like kill him nicely?
Like don't
make it hard.
Do they decide like does this make sense?
Or like what if the president is like Rosie O'donnell,
she had been talking shit,
take her out.
Like,
you know,
well,
I mean that's,
you know,
that's a big issue.
But
okay.
What I try to write in what I try to report in surprise kill vantage is the idea
that the people we take out maybe are bad guys,
right?
One one guy write about is Che Guevara.
Okay.
Because Jay is often portrayed in the press as you know,
this amazing hero and that he,
and we,
you know,
I don't know if you know,
but he was,
he was killed by the Bolivian Rangers,
but it was a CIA operation.
And I interview the man in charge of that operation in surprise call vantage.
His name was Felix Rodriguez.
Okay.
Long serving CIA,
paramilitary officer.
So,
but I also report why the president to your question wanted Che Guevara dead.
You know,
he was really advocating for nuclear war and I,
and I show that.
Yes.
I mean he spoke publicly about,
you know,
if we have to have an atomic war,
the Cuban,
I'm paraphrasing,
the Cuban people will be happy to have sacrificed themselves for that.
I mean Jay was also,
Jay killed anyone who betrayed him,
he killed,
he writes about it in his diaries as I write in the book.
Right.
So,
but on the morality question,
who decides?
I don't have that answer,
but I will tell you what I did.
I went with my main source Billy Wall,
who uses the 89 now,
and he was,
he's been with the CIA for 60 years.
Okay.
I mean,
he went
and he and I went to Cuba for him to do a halo jump with Chegg of son.
So we were a guest of the man whose father was killed by the CIA.
Whoa.
Okay.
And we had this really interesting discussion in the Cigar Club where Che and
Castro,
you know,
smoke cigars and plotted the downfall of the United States.
And that's what I try to give readers a sense of
the long lens of history,
how time changes all things,
and maybe leave with them them with this idea,
which they can come to their own conclusions about what you asked me of,
is it right or is it wrong?
Because really what you might ask is,
is it necessary?
Right.
I mean,
I could moralize right,
wrong,
but it would just be my opinion.
But when you see,
uh,
I went,
Billy Walton,
I also trout traveled to Vietnam because he was supposed to kill,
he was tasked to kill the top commander of the North Vietnamese army,
a guy named general shop.
And while I didn't kill shop and we had this incredibly,
this terrible mission that went awry that I write about in the book,
in the Vietnam War,
so 50 years later wall,
and I go to visit the son of general shop or sitting there and jobs home talking
about these same issues.
Right.
And my conclusion of that again is not,
is it right or wrong,
but is it necessary?
I mean,
we have these wars,
we keep having these wars isn't necessary.
Yeah.
What do you think?
Well,
I mean,
my opinion is that the Defense Department is far too concerned with vast weapon
systems of the future,
which is its mission statement of it's science department.
And so you create what some at the Pentagon call a self licking ice cream cone
or the military industrial complex.
And there's a lot built into that.
And there's a lot to be said about that.
Yeah.
And there's also probably some concerned about other countries getting ahead of
us.
So you have to do what you have to do if your,
if your job is to protect the American people and to keep the military strong.
Yes.
You just have to operate with that premise that there's a bunch of other people
out there that are doing the same thing for their country and trying to take
down the United States and we got to stay ahead of the curve and make human
eating robots that can shoot missiles.
Oh absolutely.
I mean when I was reporting the Pentagon's brain,
which is about Darpa and I was sitting there with scientists who are working on
limb regeneration,
right.
Or Oh right.
Or working.
Yeah.
What do they do?
Oh my God,
they have these little salamanders.
I mean they're showing that salamanders can regenerate their limbs and so human,
their idea,
they're down at UC Irvine,
they have this incredible lab and they're funded by Darpa cause that's where the
money comes from.
Right.
And their idea is that humans should be able to regenerate their limbs.
And you know,
50 years out we'll be doing that.
And they're working on the science for that.
Well that's the same science that allows for cloning.
Right.
And so in our discussions,
cause that's how I try to report is like really ask people what they think about
future consequences.
And they said to me your exact question,
which is,
well Annie,
what if one day we wake up and we find out that China has clone the first human
or a dark horse like Saudi Arabia,
you know,
the American people are going to freak out and go,
where the hell was Darpa?
Why aren't we ahead of the curve?
So it's that there's a chicken and the egg problem with that of like,
well we have to stay ahead.
We're,
we're on top.
We want to be on call it terrifying.
I mean everything I write about is terrifying.
I was like,
well do you have to take ambien?
I'm more worried of no god,
no.
I'm,
I'm more worried about coming on your show and being asked tough questions than
I am about no using you.
But then I am about,
I mean this stuff is informative,
it's informative and it's a longer conversation.
It's why I think what you do with your podcast is awesome because people can
really get into the thinking about things,
right?
They can really,
and they can move away from their own preconceptions,
their own biases.
They're bringing into it and they're stopping for a minute and they're going,
what do I really think about that?
And to really think about something,
you need information and information can be boring unless it's interestingly
presented through conversation,
through,
you know,
uncomfortable conversation,
right?
Also uncompromised conversation where you don't have a certain time period that
you have to smush something into like a four minute segment on CNN or something.
I mean that's impossible.
It's so difficult.
I see people have these conversations about books or something that are trying
to accomplish x very nuanced subject that they're trying to discuss and you
know,
and there's another person on other sides like that's not true and they're
shouting over each other.
I'm like,
boy,
that just the pressure the people have to understand that
people do understand,
but you have to reiterate it and it has to be kind of drilled into your head.
You're,
when you're pressuring someone and you're yelling back and forth,
you're not even gonna get a good version of whatever this person's argument is.
Like you should have the best version I want.
Like if I'm going to have a disagreement with someone,
I want the best version of their,
their point and I want them to get it out is with no pressure.
I want to help them get it out.
I'd like to reiterate it with them.
I like to give them plenty of time.
I want to know how you think.
I want to know what you're thinking about.
I would love to talk to these guys.
I would love loved it.
But the thing is like they can't tell you a lot of this is,
I mean,
for national security reasons,
there's a lot of reasons,
I'm sure if they want to keep their job and stay alive,
they have to,
they have to shut the fuck up.
They can't just talk about what they do and how they do it and how,
and decisions that maybe they made that were uncomfortable with,
they killed somebody that didn't think maybe needed to die.
Yeah.
But,
but that's the reporter's job or lose my job.
So in other words,
okay,
so I go to visit Billy Ward is home and I knew,
I heard stories about,
he's this legendary operator,
right?
And he's also what's called a singleton.
So he works alone.
And when I was at the call them the second singleton,
right.
Which is like,
he's got one guy giving him orders.
Whoa.
Right.
And he's out there alone all night.
God,
I mean,
Billy Wall is right.
back.
Can we back up for a second?
I'm going to give you the story of him.
Okay.
So here's this guy he's in,
he's in Vietnam and he's part of what was called Mac v Sock,
right?
And they're doing cross border missions into Laos and it's so dangerous.
It's like,
it's,
it's a CIA program that SOG stands for studies and observations group.
Am I supposed to sound like a bunch of guys in Ivy League tower with bow ties?
Right.
But the guys on the ground called it suicide on the ground.
That's how dangerous it was.
Jesus,
100% of the people had casualties.
Right.
Billy Wall has nine purple hearts from the work he did.
Nine.
Okay.
I mean,
they get shot,
they bandaged themselves up there.
You know,
they're up in an aircraft because they're limping instead of on the ground,
you know,
viewing the missions,
um,
the warrants,
everybody's furious with the government,
with the military.
There's no room for special operators.
I mean everything,
it's called the time of troubles by them.
Billy was working in the post office and he gets this knock,
you know,
and it's like,
he's back in the CIA now in 1977.
So he was out for was that it was over in Vietnam.
I mean he was,
he was,
you know,
it was over that one
working in the post office [inaudible] movie.
It's,
he was working in the right,
I mean,
and she needs you.
but he said the most incredible thing to me because he said,
I end,
he doesn't ever talk about fear.
And he said there was only one time,
my whole life I've ever been afraid.
And that was in the post office.
Whoa.
Cause he was getting back into it,
probably like recycled his mind and put himself in a place,
I'm just a civilian now.
And he said,
I'm at a wind up being one of those old guys drinking beer at the end of the bar
talking about the war.
Right.
And instead he gets called up by the CIA and they send him to Libya in 1977 and
his cover is that he's training Kadafi paramilitary guys in paramilitary
tactics.
I mean,
that's the beginning of his career and it goes on all the way until we were in
Cuba,
I think was an actually some kind of a mission because it was like,
what are we doing here in Cuba doing infiltration and exfiltration techniques
allegedly with Jaguar Sun.
But in any event,
you know,
when I went to visit Billy Wall the first time he's got this,
he's got Sir certificates and awards and metals all over the walls of his home,
but there's one framed
item that I'm looking at and it's a knife.
And there was a seal from the CIA and it says in appreciation to the assassin.
And I said,
Billy,
tell me about that.
And he said,
you know,
I can't talk about that.
So I,
you know,
stayed with them for two years now.
I mean,
stayed.
We conversed,
we traveled,
I interviewed him,
you know,
hundreds of hours.
And I kept asking him about that award and he kept saying,
you know,
I can't talk about that.
But as I write in the book,
he couldn't talk about it,
but others did.
So that's how a reporter works.
You get introduced to enough of his friends,
enough of the others who are involved,
you make sure they're a legitimate source and you begin to find out what he
can't talk about.
And that's what I report in the book.
And that is very explosive because President Bush,
right after nine 11,
created what was called a stalker team.
And ironically,
you know,
people have this idea that we've been,
sending a team of assassins around the world,
um,
in NATO partner countries.
And that what I learned had never happened until right after 11 with the soccer
team,
12 men and actually one or two women,
the femme fatale and they would go after bad guys.
And they adopted the term,
uh,
from the Reagan era.
So it was called preemptive neutralization,
who was,
who were the women?
There's always one woman on the team.
That's what I was told by the guy who was in charge of the soccer team.
And well,
I mean,
he,
he gave me this great example.
I don't report it in the book,
but I'll tell you right.
He said,
so women have a different presentation and this like he told me the story of a
woman sitting on a bench,
you know,
in embracing a man,
right?
And no one thought anything of it.
And it allowed her to spy on someone in a manner that would a man,
what it would have drawn attention and then the soccer team could go.
So what their job would be to is to conduct surveillance of a target and they
call it making book.
They have to make book on that individual so they know exactly where the guy is
and they're waiting on the president's orders whether or not they should take
action.
And you know,
that's where the,
that's where the information stops,
right?
I said,
well then what happens?
Well that's all we can say.
Annie.
God must be so excited.
Like to
live like that,
like all cloak and dagger gotta be so exciting.
Like it's,
I would take that over a cubicle every day of the week.
I really would.
Well,
you might get killed.
Am I dying that damn cubicle to,
okay.
I think it's why so many of these operators stay in it long term.
Right.
Did you ever see the television show,
the showtime show?
What the hell's it called with um,
the Fox I'd show called that the,
the homeland?
Yes.
Well that's like the whole premise,
like she's completely addicted to being in that world
adrenaline.
I'm,
yeah,
that's what that is.
Imagine jumping out of an aircraft,
landing in,
you know,
behind enemy lines,
and then your work begins and then you have to get out.
That's why surprise,
kill vanish.
I mean,
yeah,
you got a surprise your way in.
Kill them and then get out.
And if you're getting the frame your knife,
we'll give you a plaque,
Jamie.
I'm going to get you a knife and appreciation of the assassins.
You're a killer.
It's just such a crazy way to live your life.
But you know,
I'll take that over a boring life.
I would take that over.
Boring like everyday of the week.
Well,
it's like the pink Floyd line,
you know,
living life of quiet desperation.
I mean,
that just terrible.
Well,
that's the rose quote that most men live lives of quiet desperation.
It's one of my favorite quotes ever because it's true.
Snapped in that guy.
You just,
you're just in this world where you just can't wait to just run away.
And how do people get stuck there?
How do you think they get stuck there?
Bills.
Bells.
Like financial.
Yeah,
and commitment.
You have an apartment you have to pay for.
You have a car.
You least,
you have a wife that you have to feed,
you have a child do you have to raise,
you have to,
you have your mortgage,
you have your this,
your that.
And that's where it all comes from.
Where do you think opportunity plays into that?
Well,
the opportunity takes place usually when you're young and you don't have any
responsibility though.
That's when you have your options.
Well,
your options are severely limited.
The more you gather responsibilities.
Like if I had to,
as a 51 year old father of three married man pays taxes,
has a house and a mortgage and a business and all that jazz.
If I had to quit everything now and struggle the way I struggled as a standup
comedian,
it would never work.
But the only way I could be this person now is if I took that chance when I was
21 when I was dead broke and had my cars repossessed and all that stuff.
That's the only way you,
you ever get where you want to go.
You have to,
you have to take a path.
It's dangerous and most people want to take the safe path and the safe path
leaves you stuck in quiet desperation almost every time it's hell.
It's hell you're selling insurance or some other shit that you care zero about.
But can people just make that change?
I mean,
yeah,
you can.
I believe that you have to plan it out.
The way you can change is you have to put aside enough money to give yourself a
window.
And then you have to have a plan and you have to spend all your waking hours
outside of whatever shit job you do planning your escape.
And you have to come to the realization very clearly that you fucked up and you
got yourself stuck.
So whatever you're doing,
you have to do it like your life depends on it.
And whether it is you're trying to be an author and you're gonna,
you're gonna.
If you're gonna try to be an author and you're working eight hours a day,
plus commuting,
plus family responsibilities or whatever else you have,
whatever time that you have,
you have to attack.
Like you're trying to save the world.
You're trying to save your life.
You don't want to drown that one and a half hours a day that you have to write
God damn,
you better be caffeinated and motivated.
You gotta go,
you gotta get after it and you got to have discipline.
That's,
most people don't have those things.
Most people don't understand what it's like to,
to really go for something and to know that the consequences of not doing that
are horrific.
Then you're desperate and you're quiet.
But I do think there is something to be said for fate and circumstance.
Sure.
And I always right.
I mean,
people in these military environments that I write about and in these
intelligence,
world environments,
fate and circumstance plays a big part because yeah,
they too can even get complacent,
you know?
But when your life is on the line,
right.
A lot of times they have these experiences where they're like,
I must change.
And that's what I find really interesting.
Yeah.
In people.
Yeah,
sure.
Desperation.
Yeah.
The,
um,
I think a fate and circumstance or giant fortune is giant and there's no
question about it.
Some children get shot and drive bys.
Yeah.
You know,
that's just horrible,
horrible.
Lockin unfortunate circumstance was a lot of,
lot of it is fortunate and fate.
How about people getting lost?
Right.
I'll tell you.
Okay,
so the book that I told you,
I wrote on the psychics phenomenon,
what do you believe about that?
Again,
I'm neutral,
right?
You're not telling me,
I want to hear what you believe.
I,
there's a lot of people that are full of shit.
Absolutely.
My God,
all people that are talking about being psychic or full of shit.
But I do think that there is a strange connection that we have with each other
that's intangible.
And I think that some people have better connections than others.
Just like some people are more intelligent.
Like we were talking before the podcast about Ilan mosque,
and it's painfully aware when you talk to him what a champ you are.
He's so fucking smart.
And his brain is,
it just,
it's built different.
Just like some people have defective heart.
Some people have a heart like Lance Armstrong.
It's incredible.
Huge of an anomaly.
Some people have giant hands,
big heart.
Literally.
Yes,
he has literally it.
And they don't know whether or not
that's from training or steroids and EPO and,
or whether or not it's something he was born with.
They really don't know.
But,
uh,
yeah,
he has an unusually sized heart.
I'd usually large.
Um,
but what was my point?
Circumstance getting lost.
Oh,
psychics,
psychics.
That's what it is.
I don't,
I think that most of the people that can tell you the future of full of Shit,
most of the people that are,
I think people get feelings.
I think sometimes you think about someone they call you and I don't know what
that is.
I don't know if that's just complete fortune.
Like how many times do you thinking about a person when they don't call you?
That's the argument against it.
But how many times you thinking about that person,
they don't call you,
but they're thinking about you as well.
How many,
I mean,
how,
how often is,
that was star crossed lovers.
They find each other years later and they tell each other they'd been thinking
about each other all the time and they can't believe it.
That's that's,
and when you get that text from someone,
maybe that's just someone prone to action,
but maybe there is some sort of a connection,
some sort of quantum entanglement between you and someone who spent time with or
shared energy with.
It's possible.
But the problem is you have these mediums and psychics and those people are just
assholes.
And I've,
I have a friend,
his name is Ben a check and he runs a Los Vegas mentalist show where he shows
you how he does these tricks.
But he'll tell you absolutely these are,
he's been on the podcast,
she's a brilliant,
brilliant man.
But he'll tell you,
these are tricks.
I'm showing you how I do this.
This,
I mean,
I'm going to tell you that's a trek.
I'm not going to give you the how I do it,
but I'm going to tell you while I'm doing it,
this is a trick.
But he's pulling all this information out of people about their past,
their childhood.
He's guessing people's ages.
He's guessing where they grew up.
I mean,
and it's,
it's all a little sneaky shit.
You know,
it's the way they do.
It's a skill as much as anything.
And so when you see these people that are channelers or you know,
psychics,
they're telling you about someone in your past and trying to contact you,
they're con artists almost exclusively.
I mean,
maybe there's like one lady in Tibet that has a broken gene and she could tune
into the next dimension and pull some,
extract some information from it.
But in my experience,
the vast majority of those people that I've talked to that claimed to have
psychic ability,
we're also at least partially full of shit there.
They had weird ego problems that were glaring that they didn't notice.
You know,
like I could see it that this is a gross way to behave and they don't see it.
Their interpersonal relationships,
the way they communicate with people was like an agent,
like a fake Hollywood person or something.
There's something bull shitty about them and people who lie a lot.
I think if you lie a lot,
it's very difficult for you to tell what a lie is.
Oh,
that's interesting.
Yeah.
I think you lose your connection.
I think when you,
when you bullshit,
I think you also bullshit yourself,
man.
I don't think these psychics are a hundred percent honest.
Even with themselves.
I don't think this like,
I'm gonna fuck this lady over stinks.
You got to talk to her husband.
Ammo towel or some nonsense,
take her money.
I think some of them actually believe they're getting information.
You know,
my grandmother used to believe that my grandmother was,
uh,
she was,
a very eccentric lady and uh,
old Sicilian lady and she would tell you about
the
like old Italian ladies all like want to play the lottery.
They all have numbers there.
And she was playing the numbers wasn't even a lottery.
It was like the organized crime numbers racket.
And she would always say,
I was going to pick this number and I just add up the last minute I changed the
number of what you know at the first one came in and she was so mad,
but it was always that,
that I had a dream of this and I had a vision of that and it was all visions and
dreams in psychics,
but everything worked out horribly for her.
It always did.
Like if like you were really psychic,
he would have better instincts.
Like this is just this inclination that people have,
that there's something special about their perceptions and that their psychic
and it's always these really wacky people that believe they're psychics.
In my my experience,
I mean it's you,
I think you're talking also about what some scientists would call the self
fulfilling prophecy.
You know that if you believe this,
things happen manifest themselves and you can convince yourself that you believe
this.
But for me,
I'm super interested in
people who really believe in psychics,
right?
Like that's what,
and the military for example,
and you know the most and talk to Ed Danes,
you've talked to those guys,
the remote viewing guys,
I talked to a lot of the scientists who taught the remote viewing and I talked
to a number of remote viewers and for the book,
but the most interesting of all was the astronaut Ed Mitchell.
And he was so,
so I'm interested in like the psychology behind what are you looking for in
that?
And I saw that I was doing some research in an archive and I came across a photo
of what turned out to be Ed Mitchell on the moon reading a piece of paper.
Okay.
It's this extraordinary image cause you're like,
wait a minute,
he's on the moon and he's reading a document.
What is that document?
I found out the document was a map of the moon.
Okay.
Mitchell got lost on the moon and literally pull the map out of like,
okay,
you've got,
um,
he was trying to get to a certain crater and they had a very limited amount of
time right there.
Right.
Okay.
There he is.
Wow.
I mean,
think about that.
It's like the most advanced technology of the time.
What an art with the camera.
Tell them where to go.
Different story,
right?
Everybody.
Hey Bro,
this one we have left.
Let's just follow their footprints were the only ones walking.
What are you stupid?
Turn around.
Look at the ground.
See those things.
That's where you walked.
Let's go that way.
Jesus Christ.
I'd be so mad at him.
I'm like,
Bro,
you pulling out a map.
Who wrote that map?
Who's,
who's,
no one's even been here.
Come on man.
They have little maps folded up in their,
in their pockets in case they got lost.
They were on the way to crater and in that crater they were going to find
allegedly rocks that we're going to solve the mystery of the moon's creation,
the origin story,
right?
So they had like all this pressure,
they couldn't find it.
The heart rate's up,
the guy's a Houston are like,
you've got to turn back.
Your heart rate's going crazy and think about it.
Mitchell tells me,
I went to interview him at his house when,
I think it was his last interview before he died,
and he said there we had gotten 240,000 miles to only to get lost.
They missed the crater by like,
you know,
900 feet or something.
Never got to it.
He was devastated.
And on the way back from the moon,
he has this,
what he told me was a psychic change,
right?
He is.
His consciousness flipped and he became convinced that psychic powers were real.
And that is really the beginning of his foray.
I mean,
Mitchell became a huge proponent of psychic warfare of,
you know,
the,
the idea behind what you're talking about that we spoke of as being sort of
Charlatan Ism and he dedicated the rest of his life to it.
And he was ridiculed.
He was rude.
Yes.
Aliens as well.
And I think that comes in contact with aliens and,
and that comes from like,
he was so vilified by the scientists and by the astronauts and by the kind of
military men,
because this was just,
he told me this story of when they were in quarantine,
after they came back from the moon,
right.
He and shepherd were sitting there,
you know,
eating breakfast,
waiting and shepherd the stories.
A story broke that Mitchell had done some ESP experiments on the way back from
the moon.
And Shepherds said to him like,
look at this nonsense.
The newspapers will do anything to sell,
make a buck.
And Mitchell said,
I did that,
I actually did that and what experiments he,
so he was doing ESP experiments on the way back from the moon.
He had a psychic in Chicago,
a Swedish psychic that he was sending messages to.
Like it was an old Swedish man named Olaf,
right?
Yeah.
It's my psychic clothes off.
No,
I'll introduce you to Olaf.
Um,
the movie frozen.
I didn't see that one.
The little snowman.
Oh,
you're,
you've got younger kids.
Yeah,
I missed that one.
Mine are older anyway.
Sorry.
So Ed Mitchell was talking to this hot chick in the huddled man and uh,
and,
and the story broke because the,
the,
the Swedish psychic could not resist telling,
you know,
leaking to the press that he had done these experiments,
experiments where they're,
well,
psychics train on these little cards called Zener cards,
right?
So like you have a different symbols on them and you know,
one,
one person,
that's how they decide whether or not they're being psychic.
Like there would be a veil between us and I would say,
what are you seeing?
Right.
And you would call it out.
So it's like a control system.
And Mitchell had these items with him on the way to the moon and did these
experiments to try to see whether you could have a psychic connection with
someone back on earth.
I mean,
he,
that was,
you know,
did it work well?
No.
And he took notes and he showed me the notes.
It was so wild to be at his house in Florida and he pulls out this old spiral
notebook with like water stains on it that actually went to the moon.
I was like,
wow,
this is really something else.
I mean,
it was one of those moments in time where you're just like,
I dunno,
there was a feel,
there was a feeling of sadness around all of it with Ed Mitchell sitting there
in his,
um,
you know,
his chair and,
uh,
talking to me about what it was like to be an Apollo astronaut on the walls.
I'm not with a lot of these sources with like incredible amounts of awards on
the walls,
but what does that mean after time passes?
Right.
So his experiments didn't work,
but he still believed in psychic powers.
Yes.
I mean,
and that's,
and he,
okay,
so what we were saying,
he was ridiculed,
you know,
and he had such a tough time with it.
And so the people who propped him up and the people who gave him a lot of
encouragement had sort of more radical ideas as he grew older.
And I think they will,
you know,
conspiracy theorist who really kind of used him because he was an Apollo
astronaut and so he was so much more famous than any of them would ever be.
And they really took advantage of him I think.
So you think they manipulated him with information and tried to get him more and
more enthusiastic about their,
I mean,
it's speculation on my part,
but you kind of go where the love is.
Right.
It was an older guy too,
and I seen some interviews with him,
uh,
as he was getting older and older and he seemed to be having some difficulties,
like thinking about things clearly and people take advantage of that.
Yeah,
he was really obsessed with extra terrestrial life was really interesting
because didn't he claimed that he had seen something while he was a up in space?
I think people helped him make that claim.
That was my understanding of it,
of reporting and I mean I stayed away from some of the crazier a speculative
things about him because what I was really interested in when I was writing that
book was how his Authority and power allowed the program to get funding.
Right.
Because so much of this is,
it's like who's funding this stuff and why?
And it really does come down to authority,
which is always,
which is always a narrative that I find fascinating.
Right.
How do people get the authority to say,
go on these programs or you know,
we should do that.
I mean the question you asked of like how does who's in charge?
Right,
right.
And in all of this,
what I learned more than anything is that the office of the president has a lot
more power than I think any of us are aware.
Oh,
I'm sure.
What did you find anything about Ed Mitchell?
Did he say anything about 'em see if he said anything about seeing a Ufo or
seeing extra terrestrial life.
But the problem is if he believes that boy,
you know,
if,
if he was talked into saying that you've gotta wonder about a lot of the other
things that he said as well.
The other thing is as these guys get older,
that becomes their career.
The career becomes discussing their experiences and the more outrageous those
experiences are,
the better the career is.
It's,
it's absolutely changed their stories.
You know,
Michael Collins changed his story,
his story when he just got back from the moon,
excuse me.
When you just got back from the moon,
his story was that they couldn't see any stars.
But then as he got older,
he wrote in depth in his book and I think it was in the 90s you know,
decades later and how vivid the stars were and how incredible it was out there
with no atmosphere.
But there's a press conference when he came back from the moon right after the
Apollo 11 moon launch he was talking about he couldn't see any stars.
So everybody's like,
well,
what,
what is it?
Did you know?
They,
there's,
they get lost,
right?
They're older.
It's been so many years since whatever they did when they were working with
NASA.
And really it becomes,
that's their focal point of attention.
Like what the,
where they get their attention from and where they make their career is from
their attention.
And so they start telling these inconsistent stories.
I mean,
one of the great perils of,
you know,
living on your laurels is exactly that.
And it's why,
I mean like a guy like Billy Wall,
I was so intrigued by that.
He was constantly reinventing his own role within the CIA as he talked to me
about at length because he never wanted to just become one of those has been
right.
So his cover later became just another old man,
which is like super interesting.
Like he was in Sudan in the 90s and he actually took the first reconnaissance
photographs of Osama bin Ladin before bin Laden was on anybody's radar except
for the CIS and his,
I mean,
how do you run,
he said to me,
how do you run around Sudan?
Which is a country made up of like really tall black Dinka tribesman.
If you're a five foot eight old white guy,
the 72,
you know,
supposed to get reconnaissance photographs of bin Laden,
right.
Wear golf shirts.
You know,
even though I have a photograph him,
he wore like,
you know those socks like that go all the way up to your mission dork.
Yeah.
Yes.
And little shorts and a sweatband over his head.
And he said,
my cover was that I was an old man on a fitness craze and there is running
around Sudan.
I mean there's no sidewalks.
Right.
And he's just jogging away.
And he said bin Laden's used to
come after him and so he would have to run with a lead pipe.
Wow.
Lack the dogs on the nose.
And he said they stopped coming after me.
Wow.
Jesus.
I can't find any evidence that he says that he saw aliens,
but there's,
I'm seeing different reports that based off of his conversations with lots of
different people,
he believes that aliens at some point visited earth and that it's being covered
up.
Don,
Don.
Um,
I mean that's an easy narrative.
Sure.
Yeah,
sure.
Yeah.
And I mean,
how much did they tell Ed Mitchell to say,
hey,
thanks for going to the moon?
Well look,
one of the most interesting things about reporting this is what?
That you find out these people that you think have access to all the
information,
right?
Only know their piece of the Pie.
How much do they Trump knows?
Do you think they keep stuff from him?
Cause I would say like he's kind of a loose cannon.
I wouldn't tell him about the alien.
I mean,
hi everybody.
I often wonder that like,
can the president be like,
I demand to know about them and then can they say no sir?
Or are they say as I write in one of my other books,
it's like you don't want to know about that because you don't want to have to
lie.
Well that's nonsense.
I definitely want to,
I would want to know.
And that'd be the only reason to become president.
You'd have to figure out why you have to lie.
Like whether or not if you have to lie,
make sense to you.
Right?
Like there's some things that you know,
that were done,
like,
uh,
the Tuskegee syphilis experiment where you go,
what the fuck are you doing?
Like,
no,
you can't do that.
But then there's some things you go,
oh,
I see why you had to do that.
Yes.
You know,
so it would have to be like,
which one of those things is it,
is it one of those things where it makes sense where you had to go and
assassinate someone who was plotting some sort of a nuclear attack on Chicago?
Or is it some nefarious plot to turn down syndrome children into surgically
constructed fake aliens and crashing into the earth?
And the curiosity factor would be outrageous.
I mean,
can you imagine being the president and saying,
I want to know about,
you know,
JFK and they're like,
sir,
you don't want to know,
right.
Then you would go,
well,
of course I want to know now.
I really want to know.
I mean,
that happens to me as a reporter all the time when I can't talk about that.
That just becomes the obsession.
It's like I want to know about that.
Yeah,
I,
that's the first thing I'd want to know.
I'd almost run for president to learn about aliens and more.
Come on,
Bruh,
but then if I found out there was nothing,
I be like,
well,
fuck this job.
I quit.
I don't want it.
I don't want to run the world.
I just want to find out about the aliens
and then there's all these things that you find out.
Jamie and I were talking about that before.
It's like,
you know,
Jamie was obsessed.
Well,
he's obsessed with a Chicago know Ohio Rather Columbus,
and we were,
well,
we were talking about Nazis,
right?
Yeah.
I mean,
I wrote a book about Operation Paperclip and my God,
talk about a rabbit's hole.
Know Rabbit Hole.
It's a rabbit hole.
Let's explain to people that don't know what we're talking
about.
Operation paperclip was when after World War II,
the United States gathered up a ton of scientists from Nazi Germany,
brought them over to America and even Warner von Braun,
they had Wernher von Braun run NASA.
He was a Nazi,
like a hundred percent Nazi.
Good friends with Hitler type Nazi.
Yes,
he was.
He ran a Berlin rocket factory where they hung the five slow as Jews.
They would hang them out front so everybody would know like this is what happens
when you work slow.
We'll hang you.
I mean the Simon Wiesenthal Center said that if Wernher von Braun was alive
today,
they would prosecute him for crimes against humanity.
Yes,
they would.
And that was the head of Nancy.
That was the head of NASA.
That was the guy who got us to the moon.
That was the big cheese guy.
Yeah.
So we were willing to put a lot of really dark things aside in northern to
gather up the best scientists or the Soviet Union couldn't get them all.
And they've got a few of them as well.
But we got how many?
More than a thousand.
Right?
Allegedly a 1400 but I would not be surprised if you know
the story changes and there were more.
Right.
Yeah.
But that goes back to our discussion earlier about being in pole position.
I mean,
that's why we grab those Nazis.
We were like,
if we don't get them,
the Russians right.
It,
I get it.
And you know,
and I'm sure the Nazis could say I didn't want to do it.
They made me,
I'm a nice person.
I love Jews.
Yeah.
Well that was part of the mythology was like,
we got the good Germans.
Well,
no we didn't.
We got the,
we got the top Germans.
And who do you think the top Germans were?
Yeah.
They were coveted by Hitler.
Himmler goring,
you know?
Yeah.
I mean these guys were uh,
right.
I mean,
there were guys that we grabbed out of the docs at Nuremberg literally to come
be part of our program.
You know,
one of these got mark.
You're an asset,
right?
I mean,
that's what Genghis Khan used to do.
He'd take warlords from the other side and capture,
I'm going,
listen,
just come over here,
bro.
Come on work for me.
I'm the man.
I mean,
what,
you know,
ideology aside,
I'm super smart and I want that to be known.
That's kind of,
that's,
that's the competitor,
right?
I mean you can't,
you cannot be the best rocket designer in the world and not want those talents,
you know,
demonstrated that's worn around Brown story.
That's the story of all of them.
And that was,
it was so shocking writing that book because it's a,
it's like wow,
you know,
huge amounts of talent,
but how far will the competitor go to see their baby come to fruition?
What are they willing to put aside?
Yeah.
Did you pay any attention to the other places were Nazis went when they escaped
Germany?
Like a Argentine in particular.
Have you ever seen any of that stuff?
All they have entire German towns down in Argentina,
right?
They do Oktoberfest down there.
They were leader hose in.
They,
they drink out of Stein's.
It's crazy.
They speak German and you're like,
what the fuck is this?
Like my friend Tim Kennedy went down there and he said he was literally talking
to people,
interviewing people and they had photos of SS soldiers on their wall and they
would talk about how grandfather was a hero and like,
like you are,
you're the descendants of escaped Nazis.
And they put together a town down there.
I mean,
the way the Nazis were able to flee is X.
I can't read enough of that.
I mean,
that's what Jamie and I were talking about.
It's like,
oh my God.
And it's endless.
I mean,
there are,
so,
you know,
the ones that we,
there was a famous guy that we got,
he was the surgeon general of the Third Reich.
I mean,
think about that.
Okay.
Dr. Walter Schreiber,
I mean,
he was such a bad dude.
He was in charge of the vaccine program.
I mean,
you just put those words together in your mind goes really dark.
Right.
But we wanted him because he was an expert in vaccines and we brought him to the
United States.
He was the only Nazi I found of the ones that paperclip signed to his sister who
came here,
that,
that was actually outed.
Right.
He was outed as a Nazi.
And that's because one of the,
um,
investigators at the Nuremberg trials recognized him.
Oh,
juice.
And we,
he's the only one we,
we got out of here and guess where he went,
Argentina and lived out the rest of his life there.
Ah,
the,
the show was called finding Hitler there.
They were trying to find evidence and Hitler somehow escaped.
It was really a bullshit premise of the show.
But what was interesting is that there were thousands and thousands of Nazis
that made it to Argentina and set up shop throughout South America.
It's a lot of Germans down there.
It's kind of weird
if you can imagine me on book tour of like the kind of questions I get because
we're talking about right.
Having written books about area 51 Nazis,
assassins.
I mean,
he's still alive.
just last night I was at a,
at a,
um,
a book giving you the signing and people were like,
is Hitler really dead?
You know,
are the,
I mean that right.
If he was alive,
he'd be the oldest man alive.
Right?
Imagine he was probably like,
how old was he during World War II?
He had to be in his forties,
right?
Be Hundreds,
you know?
I mean,
I know and but,
right.
Or they say he cloned himself.
[inaudible] six years old.
Yeah.
120.
Now it does what it means.
89.
Oh Geez.
Jamie knows
that's an old band.
I mean,
there's been 120 year old people,
but it's fucking pretty rare.
Yeah.
Um,
so operation paperclip was,
um,
not even publicly acknowledged until,
what was it like the nineties?
Like when did they,
when did it become public?
I think it was through the freedom of information there.
It
wasn't,
it was this very intrepid journalists name and Linda Hunt Hill.
Shout out to Linda.
Yeah.
I mean she,
but you know,
she broke the story.
That's what's amazing.
I mean,
as a journalist you're always riding on the shoulders of those before you.
Right.
And she had it really hard because she did a freedom information act requests,
got all these documents that no one had ever seen.
And then the government sent her a bill for $125,000,
and she had to spend a lot of time,
this is what,
this is what I understand.
I never interviewed her,
but for xeroxing fees,
what?
I just love that detail because it's like,
it's such a covert way of getting someone to stop.
It's like,
okay,
here's the information.
We had to give it to you.
But now here's your bill.
Imagine if the government's coming down on you for 125 grand.
Yeah.
See you're uncomfortable.
You want to call a bunch of rich people and go,
hey,
let's all just donate $1,000
and it's a different world.
Now.
You could do that.
You could do a go fund me campaign.
Oh my God.
In the eighties and the nineties you were just like out on a limb.
Yeah.
They would crush you if financially.
We actually had this very same discussion yesterday with my friend Phil Demars
was being sued by marine land and because of he was a walrus trainer and trained
Orkos and he's showing how horrific it wasn't blackfish.
That's seaworld.
Yeah,
seaworld is actually the way he says.
It's a day in the park compared to marina.
I'm relaxed or horrific place in Canada.
Um,
and anyway,
they have been trying to squash him with legal beats by dragging out his legal
fees by dragging down his case.
But he,
we set up GoFundMe's and all his legal bills get paid for from people that want
him to win the good fight.
And this is a,
as,
this is an option today that wasn't available to Linda when she was exposing
this $25,000.
Do you assholes like you,
she should sue them for misappropriation of funds.
Like does it cost you really $125,000 a print those things out of it does,
you guys should be in jail.
Like that's like with like those $10,000 hammers that they have and the
Pentagon.
Yeah.
So she gets all this information and does the government immediately
acknowledged that the important thing is Nazis?
Yeah,
no,
I mean,
she wrote the first book and it was just stunning.
And,
and you know,
what year was this?
Uh,
late eighties,
early nineties.
Okay.
And you know,
then more gets revealed because they gave her a certain amount.
I mean,
I filed a bunch of foyas.
There was releases.
I went to Germany for you,
meaning for you to freedom of Information Act.
Yes.
Then I went to Germany and looked in their archives with like a fellow,
um,
a German phd who had,
you know,
real access to stuff and was able to translate for me while we were there
looking at this stuff.
I interviewed a lot of grandchildren of Nazis and children of Nazis and you
know,
I mean this one extraordinary,
oh my God,
there's a guy I told you about Shriver,
right?
I'm,
I'm on the narrative level.
Humans acting.
I'm so interested in rivalry and competition,
right.
As a concept because this is what America does to be the best and also as
humans,
right?
Because people are like that.
They're built like that.
So the Nazis had rivals amongst themselves and Schreiber's rival was doctor
Blumm who is in charge of the biological weapons program for Hitler.
Okay.
And Bloom had a son and Bluhm was prosecuted at Nuremberg.
You can see a picture of him with a big dueling scar.
You know,
he was a bad dude.
He was dueling scar,
dueling scar,
a sword,
sword fighting.
It was like among the Nazis,
they would,
they would well with one another when they were younger students and then they
would pack the wound with horse hair to make it even more pronounced because it
looked ferocious.
Really.
Pull up Jamie,
pull up Buh [inaudible].
What's his name?
Well,
you can pull up doctor Blumm.
B O l m e but also,
yeah,
and also you can pull it if you pull up Kurt Day Boosie who was the director of
our JFK center,
he was parked,
he was [inaudible],
um,
von Brown's number two.
He had a huge dueling scar.
And yet when you look at there he is right there knowing what we know now it's
like,
come on,
you're trying to tell me that guy is not a hardcore naughty.
So those guys are dueling scars on their face.
You see him?
How often the duel,
well,
when they were in college death?
No,
no,
no.
It was like on guard,
you know,
and then they wouldn't sing fencing.
Fencing.
Oh,
this guy,
how to to,
yeah,
get poked in the eyes.
Oh,
I guess that was the gentleman's rules.
How do you fuck listen,
you go on for the cheek,
you hit the,
I like,
that's happens all the time.
I mean,
there must have cut a lot of eyeballs out.
I haven't seen any photographs of missing eyeballs,
but there's a lot right on the cheek.
So maybe that was the whole point.
It was actually just a bit for show.
Oh right.
Her weird.
But,
but it was a,
it was a badge of honor.
Yeah.
There's more.
And,
and,
but they all had on their face.
It's almost same spot doing scars.
Yeah.
Wow.
So imagine like wanted to have these scars.
That was a Jesus Christ.
Oh,
they had goggles on.
there you go.
That's how they didn't take out the eyeballs.
DEMEC fencing.
It says academic fencing.
So what they're essentially doing,
they were having fencing matches with real swords,
not with ones with tips.
Okay.
Wow.
And cutting their faces up.
Fuck man.
Oh Jesus,
look at this guy's face.
Yeah.
Hikes.
Wow.
Doing cots colts.
That is crazy.
So when you consider like that people,
people did not know about that.
And then you've got these Germans walking around American.
Okay.
As part of our space program and our science programs and Oh,
these are the good Germans.
I mean,
now you really have to say to yourself,
come on guys.
I mean Ryan and scars on their face.
Woo.
That's dark.
Who'd you fight?
Club?
Yeah.
Right.
Old Jeep off I
super Oj.
Yeah.
God,
that's crazy.
Wow.
So I go to interview,
um.
Dot.
Sometimes you as a journalist,
you can get amazing information from scars.
Oh my God.
They're sliced up.
See European martial arts.
Yeah.
Well,
I mean that is a martial art.
It's an art of war.
Really.
A sword fighting is a martial art.
I mean,
many martial arts have weapons.
Sorry.
So you've got to interviews people,
so to piece together the story.
Yeah.
Right.
I can't tell you.
Others can write sometime in the,
to find out more about the Nazis.
I went to Germany and sought out,
some children have these top top Nazis to see if maybe they didn't have journals
or anything they might share with me.
And one of them was Dr [inaudible],
his son.
I tracked down,
I found him and he said,
yes,
you may come visit me.
And it was such a remarkable journey.
It was like he lived in the black forest.
I had to take like a taxi through the mountains,
up over the hill,
down through the valley,
you know,
into a court yard behind a church to doctor [inaudible] mom's house.
So he was the junior to his father who was this horrific Nazi.
I mean,
a top Nazi had favor of the fear war,
what was called the golden party batch.
Right.
Hitler gave out these little buttons.
Um,
blaume's was,
I believe number six.
So that's how favorite he was.
Wow.
And his son,
Dr Carp Blom where's the father was in charge of the biological weapons program.
So his plan was to,
you know,
murder people with biological weapons from nature.
Right.
The son had been a medical doctor,
but had left the profession to cure people with flowers.
It's called Bach flower therapy.
So he was this very interesting individual who had never given an interview
before,
and he agreed to let me come to him.
So I go on that journey.
I go to his house and he was remarkable.
I mean,
he was so interesting.
Talk about the sins of the father,
you know,
I mean,
my God,
what he,
what he had,
what he had as a burden.
Right.
And He,
and I asked him to tell me everything he could about his father and he did.
And then he asked me to tell me what I knew about his father.
I had information from the German archives about his father that he did not have
or what kind of stuff like that his father had given something.
I'd just come from this archive and found these documents.
Doctor Blumm ordered,
um,
that 6,000 tubercular Jews be given Saundra be handling,
that's the German word.
What does that mean?
Special Treatment?
There is a euphemism for you that was kill those 6,000 tubercular Jews.
When you say tubercular is that people with tuberculosis?
They were suffering from tuberculosis and he doctor blown,
worked closely with Himmler.
Um,
and they just decided to kill them.
And you know,
sitting there talking to this man,
telling him about his father at his request was remarkable.
And then he's telling me what he knows.
And then as I'm getting ready to leave,
he says to me,
I'd like you to have these.
And he takes down from his incredible bookshelf.
He himself had written eight books,
right?
And he takes down these books and he hands them to me and they're in these
rappers and I can see that they have Nuremberg,
um,
nomenclature on them.
And what they are is they're his father's documents from his Nuremberg trial,
any.
And I'm like,
I can't take these.
I thought he meant take them back to my hotel room,
look at them,
and then,
you know,
bring them back the next morning when we were doing the next interview.
And he said,
no,
I want you to have them.
And I was like,
I can't have them.
And he said,
I don't want them and you should have them.
And it gave them to me.
So I had this stack.
So I was like,
on my trip home,
it was so perplexing because I threw out all of my clothes.
I was like,
screw the clothes.
I mean I just carry,
I've traveled with a carry on bag.
Right.
So I in my carry on bag,
all I have is this Nazi of Oh that would be in right in Germany.
That is doctor blossoms.
Oh my,
the deputy surgeon general of the third Reichs documents from Nuremberg covered
with swastikas.
Oh Man.
I mean he was acquitted at Nuremberg based on all these documents.
Okay.
And Bet by the way,
based on human experiments.
Um,
and yeah,
I'm at the airport and I realized suddenly,
Oh my God,
swastikas like this is illegal.
If they go through my bag,
I'm going to be arrested.
I'm caring.
I mean I'm carrying these incendiary.
Do you have any copies of your book on you?
So you hadn't written it yet?
Journalist?
Oh yeah,
no,
no.
I was just like holding my breath.
I was just one Joe.
I was sweating almost as hard as I was sweating at the beginning of this
interview.
Right.
All right,
thank you.
Sweating harder.
I was,
I went through,
cause you know,
I was like wow,
I went through,
no problem.
Got Home.
I have them,
my office checking anything.
Nope.
Look,
you didn't go through Israel.
Oh my God.
Well,
you know what,
it's not,
the swastika is not outlawed there,
but it is in Germany.
You may not have any Nazi paraphernalia whatsoever.
In fact,
my paper clip book,
which has a swastika on it,
had to be redesigned the cover for the German publication and it just has like
broken up images of the Nazis because you cannot reproduce that image in
Germany.
It's,
I mean,
I'm not pro swastika,
but it's so strange that we've given so much power to this design that you can't
even see it.
It used to be there's a,
um,
there's a temple out here that I think is,
I believe it's a Hindu temple.
Yup.
And it was a part of Hinduism that this swastika predates World War II.
It predates the Nazis.
It predates there.
They're sort of reclaiming of it.
And this
building that was built out here in the 19,
I think it was built in the 1920s has swatting design.
There's a big plaque explaining why they're swastikas on it.
I know it was actually at a different angle.
Yeah.
But I mean,
talk about branding.
Right?
Right.
Yeah.
I mean,
my God,
that was,
and the Nazis were,
you know,
kings of that.
I mean,
they were only that the mustache,
that guy killed that mustache.
There's not another thing like that.
But he didn't kill the dueling scar.
Right.
That could come back,
do you think?
No,
not enough.
Not after your show.
What do you have 4 million viewers?
It's probably right,
but people don't think about it that way.
They don't think about the dueling scars being a Nazi thing.
No,
no.
That's what I find remarkable.
Right.
They really don't.
But the Nazis,
the Nazis did.
And then you look,
there's an amazing photograph of JFK,
Lyndon Johnson,
Kurt Davis,
sitting at,
you know,
for a launch,
a moon launch,
and there's Davis with his huge dueling scar.
And I'm like,
and their position was,
oh,
he's one of the good Germans.
Wow.
That culture was a culture of ruthlessness.
I mean,
it was a,
even the good ones.
There he is.
Yes.
Good Job Jamie.
Look at that.
Can you believe that?
Scar on his face.
They still give out an award,
by the way,
that's called the curt day award.
And I rang them up and said like,
why are you guys giving out this award?
He was a hardcore Nazi.
Well,
they say,
they were like,
they've hemmed and hawed and I finally said,
well,
at least tell me what you say to people who asked that question.
You know,
they said,
wow,
no one's ever asked us that question before,
Annie.
Well,
they will now.
Jesus.
Oh,
it's,
well,
when you really stop and think about the horrific nature of what the Nazis did,
I mean,
how inhuman it was,
how,
how crazy it was like that had to permeate the entire culture.
There is no good Nazis.
There was not one,
even one of them that was looped into that had to be responsible for some awful,
awful shit.
I mean,
Einstein said it best when he said you should.
You know,
you could have left.
Like people who could have left should have laughed.
Yeah,
right.
Well,
do you know the story of Fritz Harbor,
right?
The Guy,
yes.
I mean,
he wound up having to flee
and he's the guy who created [inaudible] gas and he's,
you know,
he created his icon a,
which had a smell built into it,
so that would warn you when you were using this pesticide.
And then the Nazis turned it in as icon B or they remove that element that added
the smell and just this odorless,
horrific,
poisonous gas that they use,
the gas,
the Jews,
and he was a Jew.
I mean,
you know.
Then when you think about,
he became,
he was no longer useful to them because they've figured out he really was a Jew.
Yeah,
well once World War Two came around,
so he was
a part of world war one when they first started using gas and he was,
there's a great radio lab podcast about it,
I think it's called the bad show.
But anyway,
what essentially says is that he was winning.
He was up for the Nobel prize.
At the same time,
he was wanted for crimes against humanity because he was out for the Nobel prize
for creating the hopper method of extracting nitrogen from the atmosphere,
which was used for fertilizer,
which to this day they say 50% of the nitrogen in human bodies was created by
the harbor method.
So what you get from food from vegetables like that nitrogen,
50% of it at least is coming from this guy's method,
who was a scientist who was a Jew who was working in Germany before it became
Nazi Germany and then was the guy who figured out how to use gas on people.
It's a dark,
his story,
dark story.
I mean he died looking for medical treatment because he had to flee Germany and
he's had a bad heart and he died on the road trying to get to Switzerland.
That's the thing.
It was Switzerland.
Yeah,
yeah.
It's,
I mean Nazi Germany is like the pole position taken way too far.
Right.
And that's what's remarkable that the Pentagon was like,
okay,
but we can learn from this.
And there is,
there are elements that are dark in that.
Well,
it also comes out of the devastation of World War One,
right?
The economic devastation,
the defeat,
the Germans are in this terrible state overall in terms of their morale.
And then along comes this charismatic psychopath that is just really good at
screaming.
To this day,
I don't speak German,
but this to this day,
when you watch that guy scream and yell at all those people and see them
respond,
it gives you chills like that kind of charisma,
that kind of influenced that someone has where they can do that in front of
thousands and thousands of people and everyone's goosestepping and sorry,
woo to see.
We're very fortunate.
There's not something like that right now and our forefathers and our
grandparents and whoever fought in World War II,
if it wasn't for them,
who knows where this world would be right now because that was a literal evil
empire straight out of Star Wars.
I mean that was like the sith Lord.
They were,
they really were.
They were human beings who were doing some of the most evil shit that you,
you almost demonic.
If you really stopped and thought about it.
If there were demons,
pretended to be people that would do the same thing.
I mean it,
that's why I think it's a rabbit hole because it's so hard to comprehend that
like a culture of educated individuals
in that moment in time that you talked about between World War II,
World War One and World War II could,
could completely become Monette malevolent.
That's one of the more disturbing things about the Nazis was that there were so
many of these people that they did extract through Operation Paperclip,
brilliant engineers and scientists that were also evil.
Right?
Like those two things are very uncomfortable for us.
We like to think of our scientists as being the people that are out there trying
to solve the mysteries of the universe and provide us with the technology to
make our life better here on earth.
Not the Nazis.
They were trying to figure out how to kill people better.
They were trying to figure out how to use rockets to shoot them at Europe and
blow people up.
And it is a,
it's one of the more telling and horrific times in our history when you read,
cause it's,
it's one of the,
one of the more horrific ones that we have footage of.
Cause we don't have footage of gangas common,
we don't have footage of Alexander the Great,
we don't,
we have stories and tales of Napoleon and some photographs and drawings of
dictators past and PR.
But we have a lot of footage from Vietnam.
We have a lot of footage from World War II.
We have a lot of footage from modern wars.
And out of all of them,
the one that scares us,
the moat and scares me the most is World War II.
Do you think those scientists when they came here,
because this is a,
this is like,
I could not figure this out even after writing that whole book.
Is it,
do you think they came here and actually thought about what they had done or
they were able to convince themselves that they were the good Germans?
That they were part of it?
Because I never saw a single bit of remorse ever.
Like no one ever acknowledged what they had done.
So it made me wonder,
I guess results very right.
I mean,
I think there's probably two people that go through the same thing and one
person that's no problem with it and the other person literally can't sleep.
I don't know.
It's a good question.
It would be interesting to interview them.
The,
the ones who've been caught who had been prosecuted and had been chased down and
they've got one fairly recently.
They caught a Nazi like just a few months ago.
So one of the last ones,
he's in his nineties,
I believe.
Um,
the ones who survived,
they all tell different stories.
And some of them say they just following orders and you know,
some of them say that they didn't do it.
They're being framed.
They all have different stories.
It's,
it's,
it's one of the,
you know,
you write a book about that and are you think about it and you kind of have,
you go down the rabbit hole and then you have to,
you have to ask yourself,
what does this mean?
Or are you kind of,
it's too dark.
Right?
And so I asked that question to a Auschwitz survivor.
Okay.
Who I wrote about in the book,
his name is Gerhard Michelle [inaudible].
And He,
the reason he was,
he survived Auschwitz was because he was taken over to the labor camp,
which was called Buena.
So it was a rubber factory and it was led by this truly evil man named Otto
Ambrose who became part of operation paperclip.
Okay.
After being tried at Nuremberg and being convicted of mass murder and genocide,
right.
We got him out and he worked for us.
I got to read the story of it.
I mean,
it's just,
it's just astonishing auto Ambrose chemist.
Right.
But he was so,
he,
so Gerhard was at Buena,
this factory,
this rubber factory.
And um,
he lived,
and I did an interview with him because I was asking him,
you know,
the flip side of all of that and his whole family was killed at Auschwitz.
And I said to him,
what does any of,
you know,
we went through all these questions to try to get some closure to this or some
meaning.
And I said,
and then I let we landed on.
I said,
well,
you know,
we couldn't,
we couldn't answer.
What does this mean,
right?
What does it mean for today?
Couldn't answer.
We,
yeah.
So when I asked him what matters about all this,
he went like this,
he lifted up his sleeve and he showed me his tattoo and he said,
that matters.
And I have that image seared in my mind.
I had never seen a tattoo from Auschwitz before and I have not sense.
And it also made me think,
because I thought he's going to die soon and he has died since.
And then that tattoos gone.
So all you have is the exchange of information and people talking about the
eyewitnesses die.
How did they get that guy out of Nuremberg?
How did they get them to release him?
Well,
okay,
so he was convicted in Nuremberg,
then he went to prison.
He went to the prison where we had all the um,
execute them.
No,
no.
They executed like the top Nazis.
And then a lot of these guys went to prison.
So there was a bunch of trials.
And so I went to the prison,
I saw his cell,
I mean in Germany was intense Landsberg prison.
And then we,
because we were sort of policing Nazi Germany after,
it was not a,
you know,
after the war was over,
we were policing Germany and then came and a guy named I'm McCoy was in charge.
He was kind of like the Governor General of Germany and the Germans wanted
Germany back and they were like,
we're tired of you guys policing us.
Um,
the threat from the Russians was very real.
And so deals were made.
I mean,
I write about all this and paperclip,
you know,
based on the documents and one of the provisions was we want our guys out of
prison,
we want them back in society.
And that was arranged.
And again,
you don't even know these things,
you know,
they're like,
but that was,
and then auto Ambrose,
and they even gave him his money back.
That was astonishing.
And the family still has this villa,
um,
in Switzerland I believe,
or maybe it's the g,
the Bavarian Alps,
um,
that had been in the family,
which is money from,
you know,
from,
from Nazi Germany and I,
I called up the sun to interview him.
He was not as,
as doctor Blumm son and you know,
he hung up on me and said,
if you,
if you ever contact me again,
I'll,
you know,
they have very serious privacy laws in Germany.
I thought about going and knocking on his front door.
My lawyer was like,
Annie,
do not do that.
They have very different laws in Germany for privacy.
Yes.
Even if for issues like this son of a Nazi.
Yes,
absolutely.
Well,
I would imagine,
look,
if he didn't do anything,
he shouldn't be responsible for what his father did.
No.
But he has the villa.
That was the point,
right.
I had all the money.
Right.
You got that money from his father who got that money from stealing it from
people.
Yes.
During World War II.
Yeah.
Like what happens there.
Yes.
But if you go back to that,
like we should really find out who had the plantations in America and uh,
who benefited from that,
like go several generations from there.
I mean,
you could get weird with,
with war reparations or big deeds where people profitted.
Yeah,
I mean,
which is sometimes a reason why you,
I realized in looking at these,
in reporting these books,
which is why certain things are kept secret.
I mean they opened up a whole can of worms about reparations.
Sure.
Yeah.
Wow.
Was Operating p operation paperclip writing that book?
Was that one of the most,
I mean that was so dark.
My husband,
um,
is amazing.
He's Norwegian,
right.
And the nor the Norway was occupied by the Nazis for five years.
Like people kind of forget that.
But he,
he grew up there and his mom,
you know,
was a grade schooler and it was really impacted,
like didn't go to school for five years while the Nazis were there.
They were going to breed with the Norwegians cause they were such lovely area
and people.
Right.
So my husband having a Norwegian mom was like,
when I was writing paper clip,
I would be so dark.
Sometimes I would be like down in my office.
Like I can't,
you know,
honey,
I can't eat it.
And He'd,
he'd be down there with a sandwich or coughing and say,
but are you throwing another Nazi under the bus?
And I would say yes.
And he'd say,
keep typing.
Right?
And then I realized,
well,
wait a minute,
the neutral journalist has to really make sure that she's not just throwing
Nazis under the bus without really good reason.
And so when I was in Germany at the archives,
I went to how the concentration camp and I asked the lead archivist if I could
come and see the worst possible photographs that no one wants to see.
And he said,
absolutely.
And I didn't write about them in the book because I didn't want to subject
people to that kind of horror.
But I looked at them and I watched,
I saw with my own eyes,
people moments before they were killed,
you know,
and then the body's afterwards,
and these are in human experiments to s you know,
to see whether or not pilots could survive height or you know,
they simulated different things in chambers,
um,
at high altitude or speed.
Um,
and I saw,
I saw photographs,
you know,
freezing people to death,
right?
Because they were trying to develop programs where they would,
um,
they wanted to see at what temperature humans actually died.
Right.
And so they experimented on Jews.
These are the,
these are some of the doctors that came on our programs.
And I looked at those,
that evidence and I was,
that blew me away.
And then I knew when I left there,
okay,
I can,
I can throw these Nazis under the box.
It is,
it's such a crazy time in history where you really stop and think about all the
different experiments that they did do.
It's almost like they just opened up the vault of evil that said,
listen,
we have an opportunity.
These people aren't people.
Let's do whatever we want.
It's like they're fake people.
It's like,
like they were an invention.
I mean the perception really played into it.
So gross.
It's so scary to think about that.
Humans just,
you know,
oh well a generation or two away,
he capable of doing that.
Yes.
And so I think what it,
when it all comes around full circle to all these government programs I write
about is that idea of an evil enemy.
Right?
I mean,
we talked about that earlier when you brought up cash Shoghi right?
Yeah.
I mean,
you know,
people often say to me,
and these are sources,
they're like,
Annie,
Saudi Arabia is the root of all evil.
I mean,
I hear that constantly and why are they our ally?
Why are we protecting them?
You know,
oil,
right?
Yes.
Right.
Yeah.
So on an influencer in the Middle East,
and to have an ally over there,
and this,
it's why I think people,
the benefit of,
you know,
people often say to me,
why do you write these 500 page books?
Well,
because I mean,
hopefully they're interesting.
And I do know they're interesting because I got this great email Joe the other
day from a reader and he said,
I'm Annie,
I'm a truck driver,
and my whole life people have tried to tell me I'm stupid,
but I drive around in my truck and I listened to your books.
I read the audio on my books and he said,
now I know I'm really smart.
Okay.
He's stupid.
Okay,
I's ridiculous.
Well,
your whole life,
everyone's telling you you're stupid and then you read some books to go.
Now I know I'm smart like he,
Oh,
come on,
give him some space.
Right.
And that it says they're smart,
doesn't get any space.
I think he was making a point that he has the ability to listen.
Right.
Maybe he's not the world's greatest reader.
That's how I took it.
Right.
Are Your books,
Seville,
I'm just joking about this guy obviously,
but are your jokes of your training or your books available in audio form?
Yeah,
I read all my books.
Oh,
that's great.
Yeah,
I love that.
Yep.
I get bummed out when someone reads a book.
That's a,
but my friend Graham Hancock had a really good point east,
like not my fiction books cause he writes fiction books as well.
He's like my fact base books.
I read myself but fiction,
I hire a an actor.
I'm like that's a good move.
Nice cause then you got to do voices and inflection and all that other stuff.
No,
it's amazing to read them.
I mean because you,
you really also feel like later down the road you connect with with people.
Sure.
Yeah.
And then people that are hearing you right now,
the,
the heel that,
the head of that same voice when they get your audio
book and because I write things that are so at the edge of conspiratorial
thinking,
right.
There is a certain sense of oh there's a real human there.
Right.
This is not government propaganda.
Um,
and I can relate to this and I can hopefully,
I don't want to say trust,
but I can recognize on authenticity,
right?
Yes.
Of working with sources.
When you are done with the paper clip book and you know you,
you've published it and you have to live with all the information that you had a
gathering and run through your mind.
Did that book,
was that the book,
did that Change You,
that book?
Like was it the most altering of the different subjects that you covered?
I mean each book has a huge impact for different reasons,
but when I think of Paperclip,
I think of this one saying that was over the gates' book and wild and it was,
it said he,
Adam does Zeina.
And what that means is everyone gets what they deserve and that was horrible.
And I still think about that because it's such a piece of Nazi propaganda.
It's like saying to the Jews,
you guys deserve this.
And so I know much of my reporting and my general just way of being as a human
is,
there is no such thing as what you deserve,
right?
There is what,
there is what happens and there's what you do,
there's what you're responsible for and there's what you can change.
But there's that idea is reprehensible.
For some reason that really stuck with me as the,
as just the worst possible thing that I could think of two years because it's
the psychology behind why they did what they,
yes,
the dehumanizing.
But the weird thing is that that was less than a hundred years ago.
That seems like that should have been something that took place.
If you hear about the inquisition,
you go,
okay,
well that makes people didn't know any better back then,
but 1945 is not that long ago.
It's just not,
I mean,
people,
people just read and read and read about World War II for good reason,
you know,
and everything I write starts,
it all goes back to the Nazis and every book I the the trail,
the paper trail at the national archives or individual university libraries and
people's papers where I go,
they all refer back to that because it was so remarkable that the Nazis led in
weapons technology and they almost took over the world because of it.
Right.
And that is the premise of all of this.
I mean in surprise,
kill vanish.
It's like these are the guys on the ground in the Pentagon's brain.
It's,
this is the technology in the sky,
but we must,
we,
the government's position,
whether it's CIA is always,
we have to stay ahead because the next Nazi Germany is right around the corner.
Yeah.
And that's,
uh,
that's really something to think about is that alarmist.
Oh,
wow.
She does history repeats itself.
I mean,
Huh.
If we went and stopped and looked at all the instances throughout history of
people being evil dictators,
there's quite a few,
and there's,
you know,
we've,
we could look at North Korea right now and that guy a assassinated his own
uncle,
right.
With a,
Oh,
is that with a missile coming out of a helicopter,
I think put them in a field.
Yeah.
I mean,
that's straight up messaging.
Yeah.
Right.
Which is another thing I think is interesting about the CIA's paramilitary
program.
It's all meant to remain plausibly deniable.
It's supposed to be a secret.
Like we're not supposed to be giving out the message that we have these teams,
you know,
that go after high value targets,
right.
They're just supposed to disappear.
That's the vanish part of the [inaudible].
So that and that as someone who is really interested in transparency and people
being educated and having information,
that always puts me in conflict with,
you know,
the government in essence because I'm,
I'm like,
we should know.
But then you think about it,
well the whole thing is you are not supposed to know because it's supposed to be
just the hidden hand,
the president's hidden hand,
they call it.
What has to be this distinction that they have the ability to break the rules
because that's how they protect us and that that's,
that's the rub,
right?
And the stories we hear are off in the failures because those are the ones that
get reported in the press.
There is a sense undergirding this narrative,
which I really like and I'm interested in and intrigued by is that the
successful operations you don't hear about because they're plausibly denied,
right?
Yeah.
Well there's gotta be a ton of them that went through that you don't hear
nothing about and your kids will hear about Pauline.
Maybe when you think about protecting us from something like another Nazi
Germany,
that's when people are willing to give up some of the freedoms they're willing
to give up.
Surveillance are willing to give a,
and this is,
this is where things get real slippery.
Right?
Okay.
I mean also when you think about Russia,
because all of this cold war science,
technology,
operations,
all of that was to beat back the Russians.
Okay.
Then the Russians go away and now they're back,
you know,
the Russians or the master assassins and they do it through poisoning.
I mean,
look at Skirball,
right?
Yeah.
Um,
I write in the book about a defector who came over in the 50s and said I was an
assassin for the KGB and gave us all kinds of information.
It's fascinating to look at those documents and realize like,
this is how it works.
This is how it worked,
you know,
60 years ago.
And then you kind of see echos of that,
of how it's working today.
And you can only imagine,
um,
the defectors or those who come over from the other side who we learn from and
they just disappear into him and they disappear as sort of the CIA's version of
witness protection.
Wow.
Do you,
because of the subject matter that you choose to write about,
does this affect you as a human?
Like are you suspicious of everything now?
Do you look at everything in terms of like things that are happening in the news
to try to look at the,
the hidden mechanisms behind the scenes?
I think the opposite.
I th I really believe that information gives you a certain understanding of like
the long view,
right?
Yeah.
It does not make me paranoid at all.
In fact,
the opposite,
people often say like,
my God,
the world's about to end.
And I say,
well,
wow,
you should really read about what it was like in 1959 or 1962 when we were
really almost at war with the Russians,
thermo nuclear war.
Right,
right.
That is essentially at bay for now.
Right.
So,
I don't know,
maybe it's my personality,
but I actually take comfort in the fact that what is happening now is sort of,
as you just said,
it's a,
it's a bit of a re branding in the modern era of what has always been there,
which is rivals seeking supremacy over one another.
Um,
you know,
people trying to outfox the bad guys.
Um,
what I think has changed is that the desire to prevent war has shifted and that
makes me,
that makes me upset because we used to sue for peace.
We used to want a peaceful world.
I mean war was outlawed in 1928.
Right?
Um,
and now we just,
the military industrial complex is such that it's really a lot better for the
defense department to be in a state of constant war because then you're in a
state of constant weapons production and you can always be creating those vast
weapons systems of the future for the next war that comes along.
And that's troubling because those 18 year old kids are the ones who get sent
into the life line of fire.
What if any research have you done on artificial intelligence and robotics and
autonomous weapons and the the future of warfare,
which a lot of people think it's going to be like what we're seeing now in Yemen
with drones that we're going to be seeing that with robots on the ground and
that this will be the future.
Huge amount for the book that I wrote called the Pentagon's brain.
Really impactful moment was going to Los Alamos when I went there to meet a
Darpa scientist who was working on an brain for Darpa.
I mean this stuff is way the physical brain trying to create a system,
you know,
a free thinking system and what his name was Garrett Kenyon.
What he told me was just utterly fascinating cause again that human thing I'm
always after.
It's like what are you doing?
I mean leave the science.
You've had lots of guys on here.
I'll talk to you about the high technology elements,
but I'm interested in who's doing that,
who's creating that science and why.
And he said to me,
this is like,
like where artificial intelligence is right now with scientists who are really
looking into this.
It's like Magellan,
you know,
like who will discover the new world,
right?
But on the,
on the idea of frightening artificial intelligence,
he told me an interesting story about his daughter and he said,
um,
people seem to think like,
you know,
facial recognition software is like telling us that we're one step away from AI,
true Ai.
And he said if,
if he's,
he was,
he showed me on his iPhone,
this was a couple of years ago and how much trouble the iPhone had recognizing
him.
Like if he put a hat on or if he made a funny face and he said,
my daughter can recognize me from across a baseball field.
You know,
if I have a hat on,
just by the way I walk.
Right.
And he said if she,
if she couldn't,
there would be something really wrong with her.
In other words,
her human recognition abilities are truly intelligent.
And that is a system of systems,
a biological system of systems that no scientist has,
you know,
the algorithm for which no one has ever able been able to figure out yet.
And he believes that we're far away from that.
But the Defense Department on the other hand,
is moving us in that direction and absolutely wants autonomous weapons to be
fighting wars.
Look,
there was a program that said,
um,
I quote this in the book,
it says the,
um,
the battle place is no place for humans.
Whoa.
So drones are the way of the future,
right?
But there used to kill people,
which,
and which also means that the enemy is creating drone systems.
And pretty soon that's going to be a big,
a big issue.
Yeah.
That's the,
the big fear.
The big fear is that they're going to be the first ones to implement it.
I mean,
what scares you about Ai?
Everything.
Darpa thinks AI could help troops,
telepathically control much machines.
Of course they do.
And they probably Gen,
I mean they've already got cursors that people can move around that are
paraplegic.
They can move them around with their mind in their eyes.
Yeah,
I think there's going to be a quite a few of those things.
What does it stream it just,
and this is called the synapse.
This is a,
I'll look read this thing.
That's though,
oh,
Darpa funded program develop electronic neuromorphic machine technology that
scales to biological levels more simply stated,
it is an attempt to build a new of computer with
similar form and function to the Mammalian brain.
Such artificial brains would be used to build robots whose intelligence matches
that of mice and cats.
Jesus,
US Christ,
robot cats,
robot cats coming to get us.
Well,
they created something called the the Robo rat.
That was the first,
um,
bio hybrid,
right?
So a bio hybrid is when you mix,
uh,
animal on a machine.
And Darpa was doing that,
um,
right before nine 11.
And people freaked out.
They were like,
you cannot put brain chips and rats and make them move through a maze by,
uh,
you know,
remote control,
which is what they were doing.
And I interviewed the guys who are all working on this program before nine 11.
And so the,
the morality of the,
of the citizenry was like,
no.
Then nine 11 happened and suddenly all this money got pumped into Darpa to do
anything they wanted.
The morality issue went out the window and they started creating all kinds of
bio hybrids as I write in the Pentagon sprain.
So they put,
um,
they,
they now have pigeons that are mixed,
you know,
animal and machine.
What they created something called,
there's a moth.
So there's a Manduka sex to moth,
that's what it's called,
a large mouth and sign Darpa,
scientists put brain chips into the larva.
Okay.
So that when it cocooned and became a flying moth,
it had the,
the chip built into its system,
making it easier to integrate and they could fly the moth around the lap.
And that was a huge step.
And this is now four years ago that I was interviewing these scientists.
Did you,
what?
Did you see any of this stuff?
I didn't see them off,
but I,
I told you,
I saw that the limb regeneration lap was a trip and this is all spring on there.
Well they were just cutting limbs off of salamanders and watching the limbs grow
back.
Right.
And examining that and saying,
well,
if a salamander can do this,
so can we one day.
And I said to them,
but wait,
that's impossible.
You know?
And they said,
well,
it's not actually because humans have,
they broke.
I love scientists who break it down into terms I can understand.
It's like what Elon Musk did,
you know?
Yeah.
Right.
Cause,
and they said to me,
you were once a single cell in your mother's womb and then you were two and then
you were,
you know,
right.
So you can regenerate.
And that's their premise.
I mean,
these are the tops on the world's top scientists in regeneration.
What is this,
Jamie?
The moth being stimulated by electric occurrence in its abdomen.
So the stimulation of the electro occurrence,
they can cause it to go left or right.
Is that it?
Yeah,
I was just looking up these bio hybrid moss,
who was the thing that you throw your hands in head like you're freaking
out.
Macaulay Culkin home alone in this and I was reading something and he went,
ah,
yeah.
I typed in as I started typing in bio hybrid stuff.
And this is the first thing that popped up.
Was this a shrimp article?
Yeah,
it says through it.
They're going to test them through Olympic themed events.
Oh my God.
Look at this.
Darpa MTO seeks innovative proposals for the development of micro to Millie
insect scale,
robotic technology shrimp were developed.
We'll develop.
Okay,
so shrimp is the an acronym problem,
right.
Okay.
Love an acronyms.
Uh,
we'll develop and demonstrate through a series of Olympic themed events,
multifunctional m m to see em scale robotic platforms.
So I guess that's millimeter or centimeter scale robotic platforms with a focus
on untethered mobility,
maneuverability,
and dexterity to achieve this goal.
Shrimp will also provide foundational research in the area of micro actual
actuator materials and enduring energy efficient power systems for extremely
swap capital,
letter s,
capital level,
w lowercase a,
capital p constrained microbiotic systems they expect is such advances will be
enabling for applications including search and rescue.
Yeah,
right.
Search and rescue disaster.
Really.
Yay.
We're going to help people hazardous environment inspection or killing
motherfuckers with uh,
with an evil nuclear B.
That's all you need is always a search and rescue me that goes in your mouth and
blows up.
Fuck.
That's crazy.
I mean they do all kinds of planning for the future.
Yeah.
The search and rescue thing is,
uh,
it's a great sort of,
you know,
way in which to present Darpa as doing all this great stuff.
I interviewed Darpa scientists who said,
look,
Andy,
we've got,
we're able to send robots into Fukushima to twist the cores.
And yes,
that is great.
But that's far from the only thing people,
right?
Yeah.
Well,
yeah,
but here's the trip.
Do you want to hear?
I mean,
sure it gets,
there are rabbit holes there because I sourced all these documents and also
interviewed generals at the Pentagon who were like,
we don't like a AI.
We want like,
we want this,
we want our guys on the ground.
You know,
they believe in the human,
the warrior,
that concept.
And so the generals were very opposed with the Darpa took a of a vote and it was
like,
no AI.
We want humans in the mix.
And so what a Darpa start doing,
and they are the generals.
They said,
why don't you,
why can't we go more autonomous?
And the answer was we don't trust the machines.
Okay.
So right around that same time,
what a Darpa start doing,
it started looking into and hiring scientists who were working with how trust
works in the brain,
specifically with what is called the moral molecule.
And it's this molecule in the brain that mothers emit when they're
breastfeeding.
Okay.
Oxytocin.
Yes.
So think about that.
And I mean that's like the ultimate going way back biology.
Like you have to have a mother,
a trusting mother to breastfeed in,
you know,
pre history or otherwise you'd be eaten by,
you'd be like,
this is a bad idea.
I'm stopping to do this,
I'm going to die.
Right?
Right.
So they examined that molecule,
the brain's moral molecule,
and they began a program to work with that,
to be able to give that to soldiers so that they're,
that they trusted AI machines.
And that's where I think you're getting into a really spooky,
dark multilevels of manipulation about what humans want versus what the Pentagon
ones.
Wow.
Don't worry about trusting the machines.
Scares the shit out of me because that's what everyone's worried about when it
comes to AI.
Like that's what Elon Musk keeps warning people about,
that these things are going to have superhuman capabilities and they're going to
be sentient.
And it's a matter of when.
Absolutely.
So I,
I as the journalist said to myself,
well,
wait a minute,
if the generals at the Pentagon and um,
you know,
that's a,
that's a euphemism,
but the meaning that the actual opera,
you know,
the guys that are in charge here don't want that.
Who does want this?
Right.
And where am I research took me to was the group that wants,
that is what's called the defense science board.
And those are the individuals who are counseling the Pentagon in the manner in
which they should proceed.
And now those individuals are all sitting on the boards of the defense
contractors.
So you can really see how money drives the rubric.
The generals don't want it,
the humans don't want it.
But guess who does the people who stand to make the money creating the
autonomous systems.
And that's exactly what Eisenhower warned us of [inaudible] in his farewell
speech.
You know,
the military industrial complex.
And the other part of that speech,
which people don't,
don't know as well,
is that what he said,
his antidote,
Eisenhower said this,
the antidote to the military industrial complex is an alert and knowledgeable
citizenry.
It's why I write my books.
Because an alert and knowledgeable citizenry has the ability to kind of push
back and go,
but we don't want that.
I think what we're worried about is Pandora's box,
right with when it comes to AI.
And we're worried that,
first of all,
if we're not the ones to open it,
what if they open it all right?
What if the Chinese open it now and obviously their technology is super,
super advanced.
I mean their electronic technology particular their cell phones or cutting edge,
I mean apple and all these other companies are struggling to try to keep up with
Walway.
And these one fc are a one m x.
What is the fucking one?
S t what does that one,
what does that big company
that uh,
they just released some,
they've just hired Robert Downey jr to gave him millions of dollars to on one
plus one plus seven.
They have this,
uh,
new phone that doesn't have a front facing camera.
You press a button,
it slides out of the top.
They figured out a way to make it the entire phone,
all screen.
And they are incredibly advanced in terms of their electronics.
We,
we deeply are concerned that they're going to be the ones that implement
military autonomous,
sentient robotics before we do.
Cause then you can essentially you can launch them with no physical human costs
on your side.
And yeah,
I mean they,
they,
they are literally weapons of mass destruction if you have robots that can go
over there and just kill people
and,
and what they need for that is the world's fastest supercomputer.
Yeah.
Right.
And what's interesting is that we just,
we,
America just overtook the Chinese in having,
again,
having the world's fastest supercomputer,
but they had it for a couple of years and think about this.
Okay.
Cause you were saying hard to believe the Nazis were only,
you know,
not even like just in just in our grandfather's age.
Right.
Yeah.
So go back in time to then listen to this about this really freaked me out in
terms of progress.
Right after the war,
a guy called John von Neumann got a grant from the Atomic Energy Commission to
essentially build the word world's first computer.
I mean they existed but he built the first computer that could actually do
calculations.
Okay.
Before that calculations were done with like buy calculators,
computers.
We're humans.
But there's this amazing story of anointment in the basement of the Princeton
Institute for advanced study where he built this computer with government funds
and he,
cause he was a brilliant polymath,
he could add faster than anyone around him.
Okay.
He's also the guy who calculated at what level the atomic bomb should explode
over Hiroshima for the most blast.
Okay.
Cause it didn't hit the ground.
It wouldn't kill as many people.
Right.
So this is how his mind worked.
So he's faster than the computer.
He has a pen and paper in front of him and he can outperform the worlds fastest
computer with his own brain.
Two and a half years into it and like 1949 the computer beat him and he made a
statement then that said one day artificially intelligent machines will be the
ruin of man.
I mean I'm paraphrasing.
Yeah,
that was his prediction.
But that was in 1949
in the fifties Marshall Mcluhan said that we are the sex organs of the machine
world.
I'm going to have to really think about that.
That's a deep one.
That is very deep.
Yeah,
we are the propagators or we're the ones who are progenitors.
that's it.
That's our baby.
We're going to make that baby and then we're going to die.
Most likely that's going to be the new living things were said that Marshall
Mcluhan.
Yeah,
let's stop and think about that.
So figuring that out in the 50s so looking around and going,
oh,
we're given birth to these things that I have a question for you then on that
morality issue,
right?
Which is okay,
if man has always been a warring animal,
right.
Why do we look so down upon the throat,
you know,
the knife to the throat and why do we as a society except drone strikes?
Cause that's the whole question I ask and surprise,
kill,
vanish and I'm not sure I answered it to my own satisfaction because it's such a
complicated question.
Well one of them is very personal.
The other one is like a video game,
you know,
to to stab someone to look them in the eye and and shove a knife through the
ribs.
That's a six different kind of person.
We don't think we want that person around us.
Interesting.
You think it's a proximity issue?
Oh it's,
it's just different.
You know one of them is throwing a rock at someone that's nowhere near you.
The other one is beating and got a death when he's right in front of you there.
One,
it's very personal and you see someone struggling and we don't like to think
that someone can put that aside and still twist that blade.
We don't want that.
We don't want that on our side.
We don't want our people to be noble and Justin.
But meanwhile when it comes to civilian casualties,
drones are one of the worst invention ever in human history.
If we really want to examine ourselves in terms of advocacy and the moral,
moral,
high ground terms of engagement,
like launching missiles at apartment buildings.
Cause you found metadata in there that indicates that most likely an al Qaeda
operative has a cell phone in that building.
Like that.
That's some shit that people have done.
I mean that has been done.
And the casualty rate for civilians when it comes to drone strikes for innocent
civilians is stunning.
I think it's in the high 80% I think that's,
we've done this before,
right?
Have it wing.
I think it's um,
it's,
it's a disturbing,
I might be conservative by saying it's in the 80s it might be in the 90s it's a
disturbingly high number of people who died who were not the intended target.
Right.
Which would,
which would be an argument for the blade for the blade.
The blade is,
you know who you're stabbing and at that warrior is going in there aware that he
to my di,
what do you got Jamie?
Yeah.
What's that phase?
3% 3% what?
That's what this says.
That's the Porsche now who released that?
Maybe 3% accuracy.
No,
I know there was,
there's been some serious discussions amongst scholars about this.
Yeah,
that's not true.
Whatever you read in there can't be right.
Yeah.
So just one operation was 3%
just to throw this out there,
because there is that big debate.
I mean,
CIA,
paramilitary,
army,
tiny.
Yeah.
Defense Department.
Huge CIA using either ground operators or drones.
I read this test statistic the other day,
7,200 and change bombs dropped on Afghanistan last year.
I mean,
people don't even realize we're still 77,000 that says
practicing.
Here it goes,
Hi President Donald Trump provoked a requirement.
The U S intelligence officials publicly report the number of civilian killed in
drone strikes and other attacks on terrorist targets outside of wars on,
oh,
so we're going to get shit information now,
but pull up 2017 I don't know.
You have to fight.
Well,
you got to really look hard to get that statistic.
There's an inspector general who covers Afghanistan,
right?
For the government.
He looks at all the statistics and by the way,
this administration just canceled his job.
So we will no longer have that information yet,
but he's the one that is in charge of reporting that cause it's called the
reconstruction effort.
Right.
But that number of bombs really makes you think long and hard or at least me
about,
you know,
the big footprint.
Yeah.
Versus the small um,
operation.
Um,
and I again,
I think this is why most people don't want to talk about this because it's a
dark rabbit hole to go down.
You know,
people prefer to believe that we're just safe and sound here and not,
not at risk.
And I mean that's,
that's the endless question of are these,
are these threats real and must they be dealt with?
What's very hard for people to IX to be 100% aware of something they're not
experiencing?
Right.
And right now we're not experiencing a war currently in our,
in our neighborhoods,
but yet it is happening overseas in the United States,
technically is involved in these wars.
And I think that right now we're dot experiencing sentient robots running
through the streets,
murdering people.
But that could happen.
We're not experiencing Nazi Germany anymore.
We,
we've got past that,
we'd like to assume that that's in the past.
But if you just looked at the vast amount of history that's dedicated to
atrocities that are committed by armies against their enemies,
it seems like that's just what people do.
It seems it's a part of what people do.
And if there is a real technological race in order to develop autonomous,
sentient robots that are capable of killing people,
we should be fucking horrified.
And who are you most afraid of?
China.
China,
100% well the,
you know,
they keep,
they keep outperforming us in that super computer.
They also have a total integration of their government and their industry.
You know,
that everything is connected.
It's not like us,
you know,
like the gut.
Like they like they'll play the long game.
They're strategic in their ability to plan things and not have them be currently
profitable.
They don't have to operate on a bottom line.
Like a,
someone who is beholden to stock owners
and they don't have an informed public
yes at all.
I mean they have Google censorship.
I mean they've,
they convince Google to go over there and I was talking to an executive at
Google and they were saying essentially we're willing to let them sensor because
we know we're gonna,
they're gonna just,
they're gonna do what they want to do anyway.
They're going to copy all of our information and just redo Google in like least
think at least this way we will protect our interest by being over there.
Am I do not crazy.
That sounds.
You're going to let the Chinese government help.
You're going to help them censor people
on an interesting note of that in the mirror.
All my books are published in China.
Whoa.
Like the Darpa book,
they were right on that.
They had that translated into Chinese.
I have a copy of it.
It's spooky.
It's like you see the Pentagon,
all this Chinese writing,
I don't understand a word of it except for my own name.
Head.
Wow.
But it's like,
wow,
they're reading.
They're reading us.
Of course.
You know anything.
I mean there's those.
Anything that makes us look bad.
There is an interesting story about the freedom of Information Act and Iran,
which came to mind with this new activity and around which is that they filed a
FOIA to get all the information that that we had on Iran and the government.
It went to when very high up in the judicial system to say we're not going to
release this information to them even though they had the right to have it
because it would benefit them.
Well,
we brought the pull up.
Yeah,
I found a couple of my better information.
Um,
I might've misread that it said that something I just found showed something
like only 2% are the high target district are the targets and the rest would be
severe children,
civilians,
but other combatants too.
There might be other soldiers,
but I'm part of the reason I've got to get rid of that.
Sorry.
Part of the reason on why the strikes things has changed is because the Trump
administration is carried out way more than the Obama administration ever did
over eight years.
Well,
I think the Trump basically told the military,
you know what you're doing.
Do you just go do it?
I mean,
basically let them just run the military instead of having the same sort of
oversight that other presidents insisted upon and the military people like him
for that
and people aren't focused or interested in drone strikes anymore.
They're more interested in the wall and watching the,
the battle and the,
yeah,
the conflict and the name calling and the shouting.
It's like,
it's like throwing rocks without warfare.
You know,
China's making robots to kill us.
Absolutely.
No,
right.
Oh,
Chinese people,
please be nice.
This was the thing.
What does this say?
Okay.
US drone strikes fighting isis in Iraq and Syria have killed at least 1,257
civilians according to the Pentagon.
Air Wars estimate the number to be as great as 7,500 this year only.
Yeah.
Just this year has a gene.
Yeah,
they are.
They're doing a weird thing.
They are shooting people from a remote location with a robot.
That all came to be,
by the way,
right after nine 11 I mean when,
whenever we get attacked,
it's like Pearl Harbor.
You know,
suddenly there is a massive swing of what civilians,
what the citizenry will tolerate.
Sure.
Yeah.
And first surprise kill vantage.
I interviewed,
I told you lawyer John Rizzo,
who wrote what was called the 17 September 17th memorandum of notification and
it gave presidential powers to the degree which had not been seen since,
you know,
the worst part of the Cold War.
And Congress rode off on that.
In fact,
what Rizzo told me is the gang of eight that are in charge of,
you know,
the intelligence committees in Congress said,
is this enough?
And that's where the drones became such a big issue because the idea of
preemptive neutralization,
the idea,
we're going to take out bad guys,
you know,
we should have taken up in Lawton and we didn't.
Yeah.
Um,
we're going to now do that preemptively and it set off,
it's set us on this entirely different course,
which continues to this day,
although it's fallen out of the news,
which is let's strike someone before they strike us.
And it's such an interesting chicken or the egg because you know,
yes you have civilians dying and yes you have more terrorists being created.
On the other hand,
do you really want the Pentagon dropping (740) 030-0200 bombs on Afghanistan in
any given year
and it seems so detached.
Whereas if you sent someone over there to assassinate these guys with the knife,
you would think of that,
I don't want that person in my neighborhood.
That person is willing to stab somebody
and what are the unintended consequences of that?
And we never even know.
You know,
I'll tell you an interesting story that's not in the book,
which is that Billy Walsh showed me a number of plans that he had presented
because sometimes the operators are asked like,
what do you think we should do?
And it doesn't mean we do it is just that those plans get sent up the chain of
command and then it comes back.
So he said,
he showed me these drawings,
they were going to go kill Chavez,
right?
This is when Bush was in power and you know,
he was like teaming up with um,
Ahmadinejad and he was really bad guide,
you know,
a threat to us.
And so the plan was to halo in,
um,
take the team down,
go kill Chavez and vanish and the plans got rejected.
They were like,
no way.
We are not doing this according to Billy Wall.
Well Billy was said to me recently,
I mean,
thank God we didn't do that.
Can you imagine if we had,
we would be blamed right now for everything that is going on in Venezuela.
It's a really interesting point.
I mean,
who has to make that decision?
I'm glad it's not me.
Can you imagine?
No,
yes.
Kill this guy,
but don't kill that guy.
That's a good idea.
Yeah,
it's intense and it's the world we live in that we don't discuss and we don't
think about because it doesn't affect our daily lives in terms of like,
it's not something you,
it's unavoidable,
but I think it's super interesting because it also comes back to your own
humanness,
right?
What are you making judgments about?
What are you for or against and why are you really,
are you really,
do you,
do you want that opinion?
I mean,
I think that's so interesting and important and,
and,
and discuss it with your children,
you know,
and let people have my,
my favorite expression is just as long as you don't make me do it,
you know,
I'm pretty tolerant of other people's opinions about things.
Don't force me into it.
Yeah.
But this stuff impacts all of us.
It really does.
Really does how the robot's going to be taken over your show,
Joe?
No.
Well they probably could
to a certain extent.
I don't think robots are currently capable of spontaneous humor.
Right.
That's the only thing saving a person like me.
Oh,
there's nothing funny about it.
Drown.
No,
not yet.
But what is the difference too?
Wet ware and hardware and silicon based,
you know,
interactions like if,
if there's a computer that can beat the greatest chess masters and then they
have it and then the greatest go master now too,
which they thought was even more complex than people just get destroyed by these
computers now.
Like,
what,
what makes us think that creativity is so unique and special?
I think what separates us really is our biological instincts.
And that these are things that are programmed into our DNA over thousands of
years of survival that this is,
these are the things you have to worry about.
This is the information we have and uh,
act on that.
That's our intuition.
Trust you,
should I trust it?
Should I not?
And you take that out of the equation,
really bad things could happen.
Yeah.
I born,
I worry,
I worry that we're creating a thing that's going to surpass us.
But I think that that's inevitable.
I mean,
if I was a champ and I was worried about becoming a person,
I should probably,
you know,
seem silly.
It's inevitable.
You want to hear the scariest Ai Story.
I know.
Oh,
it's old,
right?
It's like an dim,
the lights turn the candle on,
but it's from like the early days,
gather round children.
This is like early days of Darpa.
Okay.
And this is when we were really seriously afraid that the Russians were going to
send,
you know,
a hundred thermo nuclear warheads at Washington and take out the whole country.
Okay.
Right?
So Darpa sets up this station at the top of the world,
um,
to monitor the Soviet launch.
So that,
you know,
cause it only takes 24 minutes for an ICBM to get from the launch pad in Russia
to hit New York or Washington.
Okay.
So we up the station up there,
um,
and to monitor this so we would have some kind of a jump on this.
Okay.
Like we'd learned at about eight minutes.
My God,
you know,
it was a radar station.
That station called the beam moves site or Jay site is connected to the no rad
station in Cheyenne Mountain,
you know the one from the movies.
Right.
Okay.
And it's like the first week of business and the guys that are sitting there in
the station looking for the alert are sitting there and they've been trained.
Like the alerts never go off.
And all of a sudden the alerts go from one,
two,
three,
four.
Number five is end game.
Okay.
So the information that the technicians are getting is now 1000 Soviet thermo
nuclear missiles are on their way to Washington DC with 99.9% certainty.
Actual story.
Okay,
the guy panics,
but he trusts,
he says,
wait a minute,
you know,
cause he's supposed to now give a launch code,
let's try and get the generals on the phone.
They can't get the Pentagon general in charge of no Rad.
They get a Canadian guy named general Sleeman and slim and you know,
my God,
we should we launch,
should we launch Slamon's like wait a minute.
Human thought he remembered that the night before he thought he saw Khrushchev
on TV at the UN.
You know him,
he's famously banging his shoe and he says,
where's Cruise Jeff?
Right now they check.
He's in New York City.
Why would the Soviets send a thousand nuclear weapons are away while their own
leaders in New York?
I said,
I don't know sir,
but the radar returns are reporting this and they're,
so someone had the idea at that be mu site to go outside and Lo and behold,
what was there a big full moon.
The system was reading the moon,
moving and misinterpreted it as a thousand nuclear thermo nuclear ICB,
BMS coming crummy didn't launch.
So we came that close to the end of the world.
I mean,
it's an astonishing story.
The documents are now declassified,
but is this an actual indication of why that element of human intervention,
why trust,
why other information like,
oh,
I think I saw Khrushchev on the TV last night is so important because the
machine said with 99.9% certainty this is happening.
You Ma,
we must launch in retaliation.
True Story.
Any freaked me out.
Thank you.
Thank you for everything.
Thank you for the books.
Thank you for your talk here with us.
I'm your new book,
which is surprised.
Kill vanish.
Uh,
area 51,
which I will read.
I promise you I will read it.
And,
uh,
if people want to get ahold of you on social media,
what is your,
what's your Jacobson as well on Instagram?
Twitter.
Yep.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you,
Andy.
I really appreciate it.
Thank you so much for having me.
It was fun.
Thank you.
[inaudible].